Various anarchist schools of thought formed during this period.
His writings cover a broad range of subjects spanning the natural sciences, philosophy, linguistics, economics, politics, psychology and the arts.
As the founder of the Peripatetic school of philosophy in the Lyceum in Athens, he began the wider Aristotelian tradition that followed, which set the groundwork for the development of modern science.
His teachings and methods of inquiry have had a significant global impact, and as a result, his philosophy has exerted an influence across the world and it continues to be a subject of contemporary philosophical discussion.
In addition, his ethics, though always influential, gained renewed interest with the modern advent of virtue ethics.
While objects of altruistic concern vary, it is an important moral value in many cultures and religions.
The term altruism may also refer to an ethical doctrine that claims that individuals are morally obliged to benefit others.
Used in this sense, it is usually contrasted with egoism, which claims individuals are morally obligated to serve themselves first.
The notion of altruism The concept of altruism has a history in philosophical and ethical thought.
Although academic interest in her ideas has grown since her death, academic philosophers have generally ignored or rejected her philosophy, arguing that she has a polemical approach and that her work lacks methodological rigor.
He delivers a lengthy broadcast speech that presents the author's philosophy of Objectivism.
However, they cover different concepts: Agriculture is the set of activities that transform the environment for the production of animals and plants for human use.
Alchemy (from Arabic: al-kīmiyā; from Ancient Greek: χυμεία, khumeía) is an ancient branch of natural philosophy, a philosophical and protoscientific tradition that was historically practiced in China, India, the Muslim world, and Europe.
The perfection of the human body and soul was thought to result from the alchemical magnum opus ("Great Work").
The concept of creating the philosophers' stone was variously connected with all of these projects.
He grew interested in philosophical mysticism, as well as universalism, addressing these subjects in his works such as The Perennial Philosophy, which illustrates commonalities between Western and Eastern mysticism, and The Doors of Perception, which interprets his own psychedelic experience with mescaline.
Definitions and concepts Modern definitions are concerned with the fundamental chemical reactions common to all acids.
In logic and philosophy, an argument is an attempt to persuade someone of something, or give evidence or reasons for accepting a particular conclusion.
(The prefix ambi- reflects the idea of "two," as in "two meanings.") The concept of ambiguity is generally contrasted with vagueness.
It is somewhat arbitrary and has moved since its first conception in classical antiquity.
Given its size and diversity, the concept of Asia—a name dating back to classical antiquity—may actually have more to do with human geography than physical geography.
A common misconception is that the name "Aruba" came from Oro hubo, (Spanish for "There was gold once").
He was among the first thinkers in Western philosophy to share and affirm significant tenets of Indian philosophy, such as asceticism, denial of the self, and the notion of the world-as-appearance.
Though his work failed to garner substantial attention during his lifetime, Schopenhauer had a posthumous impact across various disciplines, including philosophy, literature, and science.
His writing on aesthetics, morality, and psychology have influenced many thinkers and artists.
His work is also known for its influence on the philosophy of science.
The word is thought to be derived by contraction from al-ilāh, which means "the god", and is linguistically related to the Aramaic words Elah and Syriac (ʼAlāhā) and the Hebrew word El (Elohim) for God.
Muhammad used the word Allah to indicate the Islamic conception of God.
The original etymology of this name is thought to have its roots in the once-dominant Zoroastrianism.
It was originally developed by Morihei Ueshiba, as a synthesis of his martial studies, philosophy and religious beliefs.
According to the founder's philosophy, the primary goal in the practice of aikido is to overcome oneself instead of cultivating violence or aggressiveness.
Etymology and basic philosophy The word "aikido" is formed of three kanji: – – harmony, unifying – – energy, spirit – – way, path The term does not readily appear in the Japanese language outside the scope of budō.
Art is a diverse range of human activity, and its resulting product, that involves creative or imaginative talent expressive of technical proficiency, beauty, emotional power, or conceptual ideas.
The nature of art and related concepts, such as creativity and interpretation, are explored in a branch of philosophy known as aesthetics.
Overview In the perspective of the history of art, artistic works have existed for almost as long as humankind: from early prehistoric art to contemporary art; however, some theorists think that the typical concept of "artistic works" does not fit well outside modern Western societies.
The dialogue Ion suggests that Homer's Iliad functioned in the ancient Greek world as the Bible does today in the modern Christian world: as divinely inspired literary art that can provide moral guidance, if only it can be properly interpreted.
The group, once thought to be a clade, contained the angiosperms - the extant flowering plants, such as roses and grasses - as well as the Gnetales and the extinct Bennettitales.
Phytomelanin is found in most families of the Asparagales (although not in Orchidaceae, thought to be the sister-group of the rest of the order).
The order is thought to have first diverged from other related monocots some 120–130 million years ago (early in the Cretaceous period), although given the difficulty in classifying the families involved, estimates are likely to be uncertain.
Angiosperm Phylogeny Group The Angiosperm Phylogeny Group system (APG) of 1998 and APG II (2003) assigned the Alismatales to the monocots, which may be thought of as an unranked clade containing the families listed below.
Concept An allocution allows the defendant to explain why the sentence should be lenient.
The company receives criticism regarding the labor practices of its contractors, its environmental practices, and its business ethics, including anti-competitive practices and materials sourcing.
SOD1) that are thought to be important in understanding how the disease occurs.
Other terms for the same concept include: partial phonemic script, segmentally linear defective phonographic script, consonantary, consonant writing, and consonantal alphabet.
Related concepts were introduced independently in 1948 by James Germain Février (using the term ) and David Diringer (using the term semisyllabary), then in 1959 by Fred Householder (introducing the term pseudo-alphabet).
The Ethiopic term "abugida" was chosen as a designation for the concept in 1990 by Peter T.
Etymology Agnostic () was used by Thomas Henry Huxley in a speech at a meeting of the Metaphysical Society in 1869 to describe his philosophy, which rejects all claims of spiritual or mystical knowledge.
History of atomic theory In philosophy The basic idea that matter is made up of tiny indivisible particles is an old idea that appeared in many ancient cultures.
Modern atomic theory is not based on these old concepts.
However, though many ethnic minority youth in Germany find these German identity themes appealing, others view the desire of immigrants to be seen as German negatively, and they have actively sought to revive and recreate concepts of identity in connection to traditional ethnic origins.
Thus, a sculptor, painter, or composer, is an author of their respective sculptures, paintings, or compositions, even though in common parlance, an author is often thought of as the writer of a book, article, play, or other written work.
Existentialism In existentialist philosophy, the term angst carries a specific conceptual meaning.
In The Concept of Anxiety (also known as The Concept of Dread), Kierkegaard used the word Angest (in common Danish, angst, meaning "dread" or "anxiety") to describe a profound and deep-seated condition.
Kierkegaard's concept of angst reappeared in the works of existentialist philosophers who followed, such as Friedrich Nietzsche, Jean-Paul Sartre, and Martin Heidegger, each of whom developed the idea further in individual ways.
While Kierkegaard's angst referred mainly to ambiguous feelings about moral freedom within a religious personal belief system, later existentialists discussed conflicts of personal principles, cultural norms, and existential despair.
The word comes from the Ancient Greek word (), meaning 'that which is thought worthy or fit' or 'that which commends itself as evident'.
In classic philosophy, an axiom is a statement that is so evident or well-established, that it is accepted without controversy or question.
The "bearded" of Barbuda is thought to refer either to the male inhabitants of the island, or the bearded fig trees present there.
The French critics thought it was characteristic of American films of the 1930s or 1940s; however, it was mostly characteristic of cheaper American movies, such as Charlie Chan mysteries where people collected in front of a fireplace or at the foot of the stairs in order to explain what happened a few minutes ago.
Dysmetria is thought to be caused by a deficit in the control of interaction torques in multijoint motion.
He spent his childhood in a poor neighbourhood and later studied philosophy at the University of Algiers.
Philosophically, Camus's views contributed to the rise of the philosophy known as absurdism.
