Anarchism advocates for the replacement of the state with stateless societies and voluntary free associations.
As a historically left-wing movement, this reading of anarchism is placed on the farthest left of the political spectrum, usually described as the libertarian wing of the socialist movement (libertarian socialism).
Humans have lived in societies without formal hierarchies long before the establishment of states, realms, or empires.
Although traces of anarchist ideas are found all throughout history, modern anarchism emerged from the Enlightenment.
Many facets of human civilization have been influenced by anarchist theory, critique, and praxis.
Etymology, terminology, and definition The etymological origin of anarchism is from the Ancient Greek anarkhia, meaning "without a ruler", composed of the prefix an- ("without") and the word arkhos ("leader" or "ruler").
The suffix -ism denotes the ideological current that favours anarchy.
Anarchism appears in English from 1642 as anarchisme and anarchy from 1539; early English usages emphasised a sense of disorder.
Albedo (; ) is the fraction of sunlight that is diffusely reflected by a body.
It is measured on a scale from 0 (corresponding to a black body that absorbs all incident radiation) to 1 (corresponding to a body that reflects all incident radiation).
Surface albedo is defined as the ratio of radiosity Je to the irradiance Ee (flux per unit area) received by a surface.
The proportion reflected is not only determined by properties of the surface itself, but also by the spectral and angular distribution of solar radiation reaching the Earth's surface.
These factors vary with atmospheric composition, geographic location, and time (see position of the Sun).
While bi-hemispherical reflectance is calculated for a single angle of incidence (i.e., for a given position of the Sun), albedo is the directional integration of reflectance over all solar angles in a given period.
The temporal resolution may range from seconds (as obtained from flux measurements) to daily, monthly, or annual averages.
Unless given for a specific wavelength (spectral albedo), albedo refers to the entire spectrum of solar radiation.
Due to measurement constraints, it is often given for the spectrum in which most solar energy reaches the surface (between 0.3 and 3 μm).
This spectrum includes visible light (0.4–0.7 μm), which explains why surfaces with a low albedo appear dark (e.g., trees absorb most radiation), whereas surfaces with a high albedo appear bright (e.g., snow reflects most radiation).
Ice–albedo feedback is a positive feedback climate process where a change in the area of ice caps, glaciers, and sea ice alters the albedo and surface temperature of a planet.
Ice is very reflective, therefore it reflects far more solar energy back to space than the other types of land area or open water.
Ice–albedo feedback plays an important role in global climate change.
The average albedo of the Earth from the upper atmosphere, its planetary albedo, is 30–35% because of cloud cover, but widely varies locally across the surface because of different geological and environmental features.
Terrestrial albedo Any albedo in visible light falls within a range of about 0.9 for fresh snow to about 0.04 for charcoal, one of the darkest substances.
Deeply shadowed cavities can achieve an effective albedo approaching the zero of a black body.
Most land areas are in an albedo range of 0.1 to 0.4.
The average albedo of Earth is about 0.3.
Earth's surface albedo is regularly estimated via Earth observation satellite sensors such as NASA's MODIS instruments on board the Terra and Aqua satellites, and the CERES instrument on the Suomi NPP and JPSS.
A, or a, is the first letter and the first vowel of the Latin alphabet, used in the modern English alphabet, the alphabets of other western European languages and others worldwide.
Its name in English is a (pronounced ), plural aes.
It is similar in shape to the Ancient Greek letter Alpha, from which it derives.
The uppercase version consists of the two slanting sides of a triangle, crossed in the middle by a horizontal bar.
The lowercase version can be written in two forms: the double-storey a and single-storey ɑ.
The latter is commonly used in handwriting and fonts based on it, especially fonts intended to be read by children, and is also found in italic type.
In English grammar, "a", and its variant "an", are indefinite articles.
History The earliest known certain ancestor of "A" is aleph (also written 'aleph), the first letter of the Phoenician alphabet, which consisted entirely of consonants (for that reason, it is also called an abjad to distinguish it from a true alphabet).
In turn, the ancestor of aleph may have been a pictogram of an ox head in proto-Sinaitic script influenced by Egyptian hieroglyphs, styled as a triangular head with two horns extended.
When the ancient Greeks adopted the alphabet, they had no use for a letter to represent the glottal stop—the consonant sound that the letter denoted in Phoenician and other Semitic languages, and that was the first phoneme of the Phoenician pronunciation of the letter—so they used their version of the sign to represent the vowel , and called it by the similar name of alpha.
The Etruscans brought the Greek alphabet to their civilization in the Italian Peninsula and left the letter unchanged.
The Romans later adopted the Etruscan alphabet to write the Latin language, and the resulting letter was preserved in the Latin alphabet that would come to be used to write many languages, including English.
Typographic variants During Roman times, there were many variant forms of the letter "A".
First was the monumental or lapidary style, which was used when inscribing on stone or other "permanent" media.
There was also a cursive style used for everyday or utilitarian writing, which was done on more perishable surfaces.
Due to the "perishable" nature of these surfaces, there are not as many examples of this style as there are of the monumental, but there are still many surviving examples of different types of cursive, such as majuscule cursive, minuscule cursive, and semicursive minuscule.
Variants also existed that were intermediate between the monumental and cursive styles.
The known variants include the early semi-uncial, the uncial, and the later s
Alabama () is a state in the Southeastern region of the United States, bordered by Tennessee to the north; Georgia to the east; Florida and the Gulf of Mexico to the south; and Mississippi to the west.
Alabama is the 30th largest by area and the 24th-most populous of the U.S.
Alabama is nicknamed the Yellowhammer State, after the state bird.
Alabama is also known as the "Heart of Dixie" and the "Cotton State".
The state tree is the longleaf pine, and the state flower is the camellia.
Greater Birmingham is Alabama's largest metropolitan area and its economic center.
Spain held Mobile as part of Spanish West Florida until 1813.
In December 1819, Alabama was recognized as a state.
During the antebellum period, Alabama was a major producer of cotton, and widely used African American slave labor.
High-profile events such as the Selma to Montgomery march made the state a major focal point of the civil rights movement in the 1950s and 1960s.
The state's geography is diverse, with the north dominated by the mountainous Tennessee Valley and the south by Mobile Bay, a historically significant port.
Politically, as part of the Deep South, Alabama is predominantly a conservative state, and is known for its Southern culture.
Within Alabama, American football, particularly at the college level, plays a major part of the state's culture.
Achilles was raised in Phthia along his childhood companion Patroclus and received his education by the centaur Chiron.
In the Iliad, he is presented as the commander of the mythical tribe of the Myrmidons.
Alluding to these legends, the term "Achilles' heel" has come to mean a point of weakness which can lead to downfall, especially in someone or something with an otherwise strong constitution.
The Achilles tendon is named after him following the same legend.
Etymology Linear B tablets attest to the personal name Achilleus in the forms a-ki-re-u and a-ki-re-we, the latter being the dative of the former.
Achilles' name can be analyzed as a combination of () "distress, pain, sorrow, grief" and () "people, soldiers, nation", resulting in a proto-form *Akhí-lāu̯os "he who has the people distressed" or "he whose people have distress".
The grief or distress of the people is a theme raised numerous times in the Iliad (and frequently by Achilles himself).
Furthermore, laós has been construed by Gregory Nagy, following Leonard Palmer, to mean "a corps of soldiers", a muster.
The poem is in part about the misdirection of anger on the part of leadership.
Some researchers deem the name a loan word, possibly from a Pre-Greek language.
Abraham Lincoln ( ; February 12, 1809 – April 15, 1865) was an American lawyer, politician, and statesman who served as the 16th president of the United States from 1861 until his assassination in 1865.
Lincoln was born into poverty in a log cabin in Kentucky and was raised on the frontier, primarily in Indiana.
He was self-educated and became a lawyer, Whig Party leader, Illinois state legislator, and U.S.
In 1849, he returned to his successful law practice in Springfield, Illinois.
In 1854, he was angered by the Kansas–Nebraska Act, which opened the territories to slavery, causing him to re-enter politics.
He soon became a leader of the new Republican Party.
He reached a national audience in the 1858 Senate campaign debates against Stephen A.
Lincoln ran for president in 1860, sweeping the North to gain victory.
Pro-slavery elements in the South viewed his election as a threat to slavery, and Southern states began seceding from the nation.
During this time, the newly formed Confederate States of America began seizing federal military bases in the South.
A little over one month after Lincoln assumed the presidency, Confederate forces attacked Fort Sumter, a U.S.
Following the bombardment, Lincoln mobilized forces to suppress the rebellion and restore the union.
Lincoln, a moderate Republican, had to navigate a contentious array of factions with friends and opponents from both the Democratic and Republican parties.
He managed the factions by exploiting their mutual enmity, carefully distributing political patronage, and by appealing to the American people.
His Gettysburg Address came to be seen as one of the greatest and most influential statements of American national purpose.
He suspended habeas corpus in Maryland and elsewhere, and averted British intervention by defusing the Trent Affair.
In 1863, he issued the Emancipation Proclamation, which declared the slaves in the states "in rebellion" to be free.
It also directed the Army and Navy to "recognize and maintain the freedom of such persons", and to receive them "into the armed service of the United States." Lincoln pressured border states to outlaw slavery, and he promoted the Thirteenth Amendment to the U.S.
Constitution, which abolished slavery, except as pu
Aristotle (; Aristotélēs, ; 384–322 BC) was an Ancient Greek philosopher and polymath.
Little is known about Aristotle's life.
His father, Nicomachus, died when Aristotle was a child, and he was brought up by a guardian.
At 17 or 18 he joined Plato's Academy in Athens and remained there till the age of 37 ().
Shortly after Plato died, Aristotle left Athens and, at the request of Philip II of Macedon, tutored his son Alexander the Great beginning in 343 BC.
He established a library in the Lyceum which helped him to produce many of his hundreds of books on papyrus scrolls.
Though Aristotle wrote many elegant treatises and dialogues for publication, only around a third of his original output has survived, none of it intended for publication.
Aristotle provided a complex synthesis of the various philosophies existing prior to him.
Aristotle's views profoundly shaped medieval scholarship.
The influence of his physical science extended from late antiquity and the Early Middle Ages into the Renaissance, and was not replaced systematically until the Enlightenment and theories such as classical mechanics were developed.
He influenced Judeo-Islamic philosophies during the Middle Ages, as well as Christian theology, especially the Neoplatonism of the Early Church and the scholastic tradition of the Catholic Church.
Aristotle was revered among medieval Muslim scholars as "The First Teacher", and among medieval Christians like Thomas Aquinas as simply "The Philosopher", while the poet Dante called him "the master of those who know".
His works contain the earliest known formal study of logic, and were studied by medieval scholars such as Peter Abelard and Jean Buridan.
Life In general, the details of Aristotle's life are not well-established.
The biographies written in ancient times are often speculative and historians only agree on a few salient points.
Aristotle was born in 384 BC in Stagira, Chalcidice, about 55 km (34 miles) east of modern-day Thessaloniki.
An American in Paris is a jazz-influenced symphonic poem (or tone poem) for orchestra by American composer George Gershwin first performed in 1928.
Gershwin scored the piece for the standard instruments of the symphony orchestra plus celesta, saxophones, and automobile horns.
He brought back four Parisian taxi horns for the New York premiere of the composition, which took place on December 13, 1928, in Carnegie Hall, with Walter Damrosch conducting the New York Philharmonic.
It was Damrosch who had commissioned Gershwin to write his Concerto in F following the earlier success of Rhapsody in Blue (1924).
He completed the orchestration on November 18, less than four weeks before the work's premiere.
He collaborated on the original program notes with critic and composer Deems Taylor.
Background Although the story is likely apocryphal, Gershwin is said to have been attracted by Maurice Ravel's unusual chords, and Gershwin went on his first trip to Paris in 1926 ready to study with Ravel.
After his initial student audition with Ravel turned into a sharing of musical theories, Ravel said he could not teach him, saying, "Why be a second-rate Ravel when you can be a first-rate Gershwin?" Gershwin strongly encouraged Ravel to come to the United States for a tour.
Schmitz was the head of Pro Musica, promoting Franco-American musical relations, and was able to offer Ravel a $10,000 fee for the tour, an enticement Gershwin knew would be important to Ravel.
Gershwin greeted Ravel in New York in March 1928 during a party held for Ravel's birthday by Éva Gauthier.
Ravel's tour reignited Gershwin's desire to return to Paris, which he and his brother Ira did after meeting Ravel.
Yet after he played for her, she told him she could not teach him.
Boulanger gave Gershwin basically the same advice she gave all her accomplished master students: "What could I give you that you haven't already got?" This did not set Gershwin back, as his real intent abroad was to complete a new work based on Paris and perhaps a second rhapsody for piano and orchestra to follow his Rhapsody in Blue.
Paris at this time hosted many expatriate writers, among them Ezra Pound, W.
Scott Fitzgerald and artist Pablo Picasso.
Composition Gershwin based An American in Paris on a melodic fragment called "Very Parisienne", written in 1926 on his first visit to Paris as a gift to his hosts, Robert and Mabel Schirmer.
Gershwin called it "a rhapsodic ballet"; it is written freely and in a much more modern id
This change resulted from the Art Directors' branch of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) being renamed the Designers' branch.
Willis 7 wins Richard Day 6 wins Thomas Little Walter M.
Wheeler 4 wins John Box Samuel M.
Darling John DeCuir Vernon Dixon Hans Dreier Dante Ferretti Paul S.
Fox Alexander Golitzen Paul Groesse John Meehan Ray Moyer Francesca Lo Schiavo Jack Martin Smith 2 wins Ken Adam E.
Blumenthal Henry Bumstead Donald Graham Burt Gene Callahan Rick Carter George Davis Leslie Dilley Michael D.
Gausman Nancy Haigh Harry Horner William A.
Horning Hugh Hunt Wiard Ihnen Emile Kuri Terence Marsh Catherine Martin William Cameron Menzies Urie McCleary John Myhre Gil Parrondo Robert Priestley Stuart A.
Reiss Norman Reynolds Dario Simoni Robert Stromberg Richard Sylbert Joseph C.
They are presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences located in Beverly Hills, California, United States, in recognition of excellence in cinematic achievements as assessed by the Academy's voting membership.
The Oscar statuette depicts a knight rendered in the Art Deco style.
The cost of guest tickets for that night's ceremony was $5 ($ at 2020 prices).
The ceremony ran for 15 minutes.
For this first ceremony, winners were announced to the media three months earlier.
In 1940, the Los Angeles Times announced the winners before the ceremony began; as a result, the following year the Academy started using a sealed envelope to reveal the names of the winners.
With the fourth ceremony, however, the system changed, and professionals were honored for a specific performance in a single film.
by Josep Maria Benet i Jornet.
The film has no male actors, with all roles played by females.
The film was produced in 1996.
Synopsis In order to prepare herself to play a role commemorating the life of legendary actress Empar Ribera, young actress (Mercè Pons) interviews three established actresses who had been the Ribera's pupils: the international diva Glòria Marc (Núria Espert), the television star Assumpta Roca (Rosa Maria Sardà), and dubbing director Maria Caminal (Anna Lizaran).
Cast Núria Espert as Glòria Marc Rosa Maria Sardà as Assumpta Roca Anna Lizaran as Maria Caminal Mercè Pons as Estudiant Recognition Screenings Actrius screened in 2001 at the Grauman's Egyptian Theatre in an American Cinematheque retrospective of the works of its director.
The film had first screened at the same location in 1998.
It was also shown at the 1997 Stockholm International Film Festival.
Noting that there were "occasional, refreshing moments of intergenerational bitchiness", they did not "justify comparisons to All About Eve", and were "insufficiently different to deserve critical parallels with Rashomon".
He also wrote that The Guardian called the film a "slow, stuffy chamber-piece", and that The Evening Standard stated the film's "best moments exhibit the bitchy tantrums seething beneath the threesome's composed veneers".
Animalia is an illustrated children's book by Graeme Base.
It was originally published in 1986, followed by a tenth anniversary edition in 1996, and a 25th anniversary edition in 2012.
Over four million copies have been sold worldwide.
A special numbered and signed anniversary edition was also published in 1996, with an embossed gold jacket.
Synopsis Animalia is an alliterative alphabet book and contains twenty-six illustrations, one for each letter of the alphabet.
The illustrations contain many other objects beginning with that letter that the reader can try to identify (however, there are not necessarily "a thousand things, or maybe more", as the author states).
As an additional challenge, the author has hidden a picture of himself as a child in every picture.
Related products Julia MacRae Books published an Animalia colouring book in 2008.
Abrams also published a wall calendar colouring book version for children the same year.
Abrams published The Animalia Wall Frieze, a fold-out over 26 feet in length, in which the author created new riddles for each letter.
The Great American Puzzle Factory created a 300-piece jigsaw puzzle based on the book's cover.
Adaptations A television series was also created, based on the book, which airs in Canada.
The Australian Children's Television Foundation released a teaching resource DVD-ROM in 2011 to accompany the TV series with teaching aids for classroom use.
In 2010, The Base Factory and AppBooks released Animalia as an application for iPad and iPhone/iPod Touch.
The Children's Book Council of Australia designated Animalia a 1987 Picture Book of the Year: Honour Book.
References External links Graeme Base's official website A Learning Time activity guide for Animalia created by The Little Big Book Club 1986 children's books Alphabet books Australian children's books Children's books about animals Picture books by Graeme Base Puffin Books books Puzzle books
International Atomic Time (abbreviated TAI, from its French name ) is a high-precision atomic coordinate time standard based on the notional passage of proper time on Earth's geoid.
TAI is a weighted average of the time kept by over 450 atomic clocks in over 80 national laboratories worldwide.
It is a continuous scale of time, without leap seconds, and it is the principal realisation of Terrestrial Time (with a fixed offset of epoch).
It is the basis for Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), which is used for civil timekeeping all over the Earth's surface and which has leap seconds.
UTC deviates from TAI by a number of whole seconds.
, when another leap second was put into effect, UTC is currently exactly 37 seconds behind TAI.
The 37 seconds result from the initial difference of 10 seconds at the start of 1972, plus 27 leap seconds in UTC since 1972.
TAI may be reported using traditional means of specifying days, carried over from non-uniform time standards based on the rotation of the Earth.
Specifically, both Julian days and the Gregorian calendar are used.
TAI in this form was synchronised with Universal Time at the beginning of 1958, and the two have drifted apart ever since, due primarily to the slowing rotation of the Earth.
Operation TAI is a weighted average of the time kept by over 450 atomic clocks in over 80 national laboratories worldwide.
The majority of the clocks involved are caesium clocks; the International System of Units (SI) definition of the second is based on caesium.
The clocks are compared using GPS signals and two-way satellite time and frequency transfer.
Due to the signal averaging TAI is an order of magnitude more stable than its best constituent clock.
The participating institutions each broadcast, in real time, a frequency signal with timecodes, which is their estimate of TAI.
Time codes are usually published in the form of UTC, which differs from TAI by a well-known integer number of seconds.
These time scales are denoted in the form UTC(NPL) in the UTC form, where NPL here identifies the National Physical Laboratory, UK.
The TAI form may be denoted TAI(NPL).
The latter is not to be confused with TA(NPL), which denotes an independent atomic time scale, not synchronised to TAI or to anything else.
The clocks at different institutions are regularly compared against each other.
The International Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM, France), combines these measurements to retrospectively calculate the weighted average that forms the most stable time scale possible.
This combined time scale is published monthly in "Circular T", and is the canonical TAI.
This time scale is expressed in the form of tables of differences UTC − UTC(k) (equal to TAI − TAI(k)) for each participating institution k.
The same circular also gives tables of TAI − TA(k), for the various unsynchronised atomic time scales.
Errors in publication may be corrected by issuing a revision of the faulty Circular T or by errata in a subsequent Ci
Altruism is the principle and practice of concern for the well-being and/or happiness of other humans or animals.
It may be considered a synonym of selflessness, the opposite of selfishness.
The word altruism was popularized (and possibly coined) by the French philosopher Auguste Comte in French, as , for an antonym of egoism.
He derived it from the Italian , which in turn was derived from Latin , meaning "other people" or "somebody else".
Altruism, as observed in populations of organisms, is when an individual performs an action at a cost to themselves (in terms of e.g.
Altruism can be distinguished from feelings of loyalty or concern for the common good.
The latter are predicated upon social relationships, whilst altruism does not consider relationships.
Whether "true" altruism is possible in human psychology is a subject of debate.
Effective altruism is the use of evidence and reason to determine the most effective ways to benefit others.
Whilst ideas about altruism from one field can affect the other fields, the different methods and focuses of these fields always lead to different perspectives on altruism.
In simple terms, altruism is caring about the welfare of other people and acting to help them.
Scientific viewpoints Anthropology Marcel Mauss's essay The Gift contains a passage called "Note on alms".
This note describes the evolution of the notion of alms (and by extension of altruism) from the notion of sacrifice.
In it, he writes: Evolutionary explanations In the Science of ethology (the study of animal behaviour), and more generally in the study of social evolution, altruism refers to behavior by an individual that increases the fitness of another individual while decreasing the fitness of the actor.
In evolutionary psychology this te
Alice O'Connor (born Alisa Zinovyevna Rosenbaum; , 1905 – March 6, 1982), better known by her pen name Ayn Rand (), was a Russian-born American writer and public philosopher.
She is known for her fiction and for developing a philosophical system she named Objectivism.
Born and educated in Russia, she moved to the United States in 1926.
After two early novels that were initially unsuccessful and two Broadway plays, she achieved fame with her 1943 novel, The Fountainhead.
In 1957, Rand published her best-selling work, the novel Atlas Shrugged.
Rand advocated reason and rejected faith and religion.
She supported rational and ethical egoism as opposed to altruism.
Although Rand opposed libertarianism, which she viewed as anarchism, she is often associated with the modern libertarian movement in the United States.
In art, Rand promoted romantic realism.
She was sharply critical of most philosophers and philosophical traditions known to her, with a few exceptions.
Rand's books have sold over 37 million copies.
Her fiction received mixed reviews from literary critics, with reviews becoming more negative for her later work.
Her writings have politically influenced some right-libertarians and conservatives.
The Objectivist movement circulates her ideas, both to the public and in academic settings.
Life Early life Rand was born Alisa Zinovyevna Rosenbaum on February 2, 1905, into a Russian-Jewish bourgeois family living in Saint Petersburg.
She was the eldest of three daughters of Zinovy Zakharovich Rosenbaum, a pharmacist, and Anna Borisovna ().
After graduating high school there in June 1921, she returned with her family to Petrograd (as Saint Petersburg was then named), where they faced desperate conditions, occasionally nearly starving.
At 16, she began her studies in the department of social pedagogy, majoring in history.
She was one of many bourgeois students purged from the university shortly before graduating.
Alain Connes (; born 1 April 1947 in Draguignan) is a French mathematician, known for his contributions to the study of operator algebras and noncommutative geometry.
He is a professor at the , , Ohio State University and Vanderbilt University.
Career Alain Connes attended high school at in Marseille, and was then a student of the classes préparatoires in .
Between 1966 and 1970 he studed at École normale supérieure in Paris, and in 1973 he obtained a PhD from Pierre and Marie Curie University, under the supervision of Jacques Dixmier.
In 1976 he returned to France and worked as professor at Pierre and Marie Curie University until 1980 and at CNRS between 1981 and 1984.
Moreover, since 1979 he holds the Léon Motchane Chair at IHES.
From 1984 until his retirement in 2017 he held the chair of Analysis and Geometry at Collège de France.
In 2000 he was an invited professor at the Conservatoire national des arts et métiers.
Research Connes' main research interests revolved around operator algebras.
In his early work on von Neumann algebras in the 1970s, he succeeded in obtaining the almost complete classification of injective factors.
He also formulated the Connes embedding problem.
Following this, he made contributions in operator K-theory and index theory, which culminated in the Baum–Connes conjecture.
He also introduced cyclic cohomology in the early 1980s as a first step in the study of noncommutative differential geometry.
He was a member of Nicolas Bourbaki.
The French National Centre for Scientific Research granted him the silver medal in 1977 and the gold medal in 2004.
He was an invited speaker at the International Congress of Mathematicians in 1974 at Vancouver and in 1986 at Berkeley, and a plenary speaker at the ICM in 1978 at Helsinki.
Since 1982 he is a member of the French Academy of Sciences.
He was elected member of several foreign academies and societies, including the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters in 1980
Allan Dwan (born Joseph Aloysius Dwan; April 3, 1885 – December 28, 1981) was a pioneering Canadian-born American motion picture director, producer, and screenwriter.
Early life Born Joseph Aloysius Dwan in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, Dwan was the younger son of commercial traveler of woolen clothing Joseph Michael Dwan (1857–1917) and his wife Mary Jane Dwan (née Hunt).
The family moved to the United States when he was seven years old on December 4, 1892, by ferry from Windsor to Detroit, according to his naturalization petition of August 1939.
His elder brother, Leo Garnet Dwan (1883–1964), became a physician.
Allan Dwan studied engineering at the University of Notre Dame and then worked for a lighting company in Chicago.
He had a strong interest in the fledgling motion picture industry, and when Essanay Studios offered him the opportunity to become a scriptwriter, he took the job.
While still in New York, in 1917 he was the founding president of the East Coast chapter of the Motion Picture Directors Association.
Career Dwan started his directing career by accident in 1911, when he was sent by his employers to California, in order to locate a company that had vanished.
Dwan managed to track the company down, and learned that they were waiting for the film's director (who was an alcoholic) to return from a binge (and allowing them to return to work).
Dwan wired back to his employers in Chicago, informing them of the situation, and suggested that they disband the company.
They wired back, instructing Dwan to direct the film.
When Dwan informed the company of the situation, and that their jobs were on the line, they responded: "You're the best damn director we ever saw".
Dwan operated Flying A Studios in La Mesa, California, from August 1911 to July 1912.
Flying A was one of the first motion pictures studios in California history.
On August 12, 2011, a plaque was unveiled on the Wolff building at Third Avenue and La Mesa Boulevard commemorating Dwan and the Flying A Studios origins in La Mesa, California.
Dwan directed Gloria Swanson in eight feature films, and one short film made in the short-lived sound-on-film process Phonofilm.
This short, also featuring Thomas Meighan and Henri de la Falaise, was produced as a joke, for the April 26, 1925 "Lambs' Gambol" for The Lambs, with the film showing Swanson crashing the all-male club.
Following the introduction of the talkies, Dwan directed child-star Shirley Temple in Heidi (1937) and Rebecca of Sunnybroo
Algeria is bordered to the northeast by Tunisia; to the east by Libya; to the southeast by Niger; to the southwest by Mali, Mauritania, and Western Sahara; to the west by Morocco; and to the north by the Mediterranean Sea.
It is considered part of the Maghreb region of North Africa.
It has a semi-arid geography, with most of the population living in the fertile north and the Sahara dominating the geography of the south.
Algeria produced and is linked to many civilizations, empires and dynasties, including Numidians, Mauretanians, Phoenicians, Carthaginians, Romans, Vandals, Mauro-Romans, Byzantines, Umayyads, Ifranids, Abbasids, Rustamids, Idrisids, Sulaymanids, Aghlabids, Fatimids, Zirids, Hammadids, Almoravids, Almohads, Marinids, Hafsids and the Zayyanids.
The official languages of Algeria are Arabic and Berber.
The majority of Algeria's population is Arab, practicing Islam.
The native Algerian Arabic is the main spoken language.
French also serves as an administrative and educational language in some contexts, but it has no official status.
Algeria is a semi-presidential republic, with local constituencies consisting of 58 provinces and 1,541 communes.
Algeria is a regional power in North Africa, and a middle power in global affairs.
It has the highest Human Development Index of all continental African countries and one of the largest economies on the continent, based largely on energy exports.
Algeria has the world's sixteenth-largest oil reserves and the ninth-largest reserves of natural gas.
Sonatrach, the national oil company, is the largest company
This is a list of characters in Ayn Rand's 1957 novel Atlas Shrugged.
Major characters The following are major characters from the novel.
Protagonists Dagny Taggart Dagny Taggart is the protagonist of the novel.
She is vice-president in Charge of Operations for Taggart Transcontinental, under her brother, James Taggart.
Francisco d'Anconia Francisco d'Anconia is one of the central characters in Atlas Shrugged, an owner by inheritance of the world's largest copper mining operation.
He is a childhood friend, and the first love, of Dagny Taggart.
A child prodigy of exceptional talents, Francisco was dubbed the "climax" of the d'Anconia line, an already prestigious Argentine family of skilled industrialists.
He was a classmate of John Galt and Ragnar Danneskjöld and student of both Hugh Akston and Robert Stadler.
Later, Francisco bankrupts the d'Anconia business to put it out of others' reach.
His full name is given as "Francisco Domingo Carlos Andres Sebastián d'Anconia".
John Galt John Galt is the primary male hero of Atlas Shrugged.
He initially appears as an unnamed menial worker for Taggart Transcontinental, who often dines with Eddie Willers in the employees' cafeteria, and leads Eddie to reveal important information about Dagny Taggart and Taggart Transcontinental.
Only Eddie's side of their conversations is given in the novel.
Later in the novel, the reader discovers this worker's true identity.
This prototype was found by Dagny Taggart and Hank Rearden.
Henry "Hank" Rearden Henry (known as "Hank") Rearden is one of the central characters in Atlas Shrugged.
He owns the most important steel company in the United States, and invents Rearden Metal, an alloy stronger, lighter, cheaper and tougher than steel.
He lives in Philadelphia with his wife Lillian, his brother Philip, and his elderly mother.
Rearden represents a type of self-made man and eventually divorces Lillian, abandons his steel mills following a bloody assault by government-planted workers, and joins John Galt's strike.
Eddie Willers Edwin "Eddie" Willers is the Special Assistant to the Vice-President in Charge of Operations at Taggart Transcontinental.
Social anthropology studies patterns of behavior, while cultural anthropology studies cultural meaning, including norms and values.
A portmanteau term sociocultural anthropology is commonly used today.
Linguistic anthropology studies how language influences social life.
Biological or physical anthropology studies the biological development of humans.
Archaeological anthropology, often termed as "anthropology of the past," studies human activity through investigation of physical evidence.
It is considered a branch of anthropology in North America and Asia, while in Europe, archaeology is viewed as a discipline in its own right or grouped under other related disciplines, such as history and palaeontology.
Etymology The abstract noun anthropology is first attested in reference to history.
Its present use first appeared in Renaissance Germany in the works of Magnus Hundt and Otto Casmann.
Their Neo-Latin derived from the combining forms of the Greek words ánthrōpos (, "human") and lógos (, "study").
Its adjectival form appeared in the works of Aristotle.
Various short-lived organizations of anthropologists had already been formed.
The Société Ethnologique de Paris, the first to use the term ethnology, was formed in 1839 and focused on methodically studying human races.
Meanwhile, the Ethnological Society of New York, currently the American Ethnological Society, was founded on its model in 1842, as well as the Ethnological Society of London in 1843, a break-away group of the Aborigines' Protection Society.
These anthropologists of the times were liberal, anti-slavery, and pro-human-rights activists.
They maintained international connections.
Professionals of the agricultural science are called agricultural scientists or agriculturists.
In 1843, John Bennet Lawes and Joseph Henry Gilbert began a set of long-term field experiments at Rothamsted Research in England, some of which are still running as of 2018.
The Hatch Act was driven by farmers' interest in knowing the constituents of early artificial fertilizer.
The Smith–Hughes Act of 1917 shifted agricultural education back to its vocational roots, but the scientific foundation had been built.
For the next 44 years after 1906, federal expenditures on agricultural research in the United States outpaced private expenditures.
Prominent agricultural scientists Wilbur Olin Atwater Robert Bakewell Norman Borlaug Luther Burbank George Washington Carver Carl Henry Clerk George C.
Swaminathan Jethro Tull Artturi Ilmari Virtanen Sewall Wright Fields or related disciplines Scope Agriculture, agricultural science, and agronomy are often confused.
Agriculture concerns techniques, including the application of agronomic research.
Agronomy is research and development related to studying and improving plant-based crops.
Soil forming factors and soil degradation Agricultural sciences include research and development on: Improving agricultural productivity in terms of quantity and quality (e.g., selection of drought-resistant crops and animals, development of new pesticides, yield-sensing technologies, simulation models of crop growth, in-vitro cell culture techniques) Minimizing the effects of pests (weeds, insects, pathogens, mollusks, nematodes) on crop or animal production systems.
Transformation of primary products into end-consumer products (e.g., production, preservation, and packaging of dairy products) Prevention and correction of adverse environmental effects (e.g., soil degradation, waste management, bioremediation) Theoretical production ecology, relating to crop production modeling Traditional agricultural systems, sometimes termed subsistence agriculture, which feed most of the poorest people in the world.
These systems are of interest as they sometimes retain a level of integration with natural ecological sy
In its Western form, alchemy is first attested in a number of pseudepigraphical texts written in Greco-Roman Egypt during the first few centuries AD.
Alchemists attempted to purify, mature, and perfect certain materials.
Common aims were chrysopoeia, the transmutation of "base metals" (e.g., lead) into "noble metals" (particularly gold); the creation of an elixir of immortality; and the creation of panaceas able to cure any disease.
Islamic and European alchemists developed a basic set of laboratory techniques, theories, and terms, some of which are still in use today.
Modern discussions of alchemy are generally split into an examination of its exoteric practical applications and its esoteric spiritual aspects, despite criticisms by scholars such as Eric J.
Holmyard and Marie-Louise von Franz that they should be understood as complementary.
The latter interests historians of esotericism, psychologists, and some philosophers and spiritualists.
The subject has also made an ongoing impact on literature and the arts.
Etymology The word alchemy comes from old French alquemie, alkimie, used in Medieval Latin as .
This name was itself adopted from the Arabic word ().
The Arabic in turn was a borrowing of the Late Greek term khēmeía (), also spelled khumeia () and khēmía (), with al- being the Arabic definite article 'the'.
Together this association can be interpreted as 'the process of transmutation by which to fuse or reunite with the divine or original form'.
Several etymologies have been proposed for the Greek term.
The first was proposed by Zosimos of Panopolis (3rd–4th centuries), who derived it from the name of a book, the Khemeu.
Hermann Diels argued in 1914 that it rather derived from χύμα, used to describe metallic objects formed by casting.
Predator (film), fifth film in the franchise from 2004 by Paul W.
A related but distinct subject is physical cosmology, which studies the Universe as a whole.
Types Astronomers usually fall under either of two main types: observational and theoretical.
Observational astronomers make direct observations of celestial objects and analyze the data.
In contrast, theoretical astronomers create and investigate models of things that cannot be observed.
Because it takes millions to billions of years for a system of stars or a galaxy to complete a life cycle, astronomers must observe snapshots of different systems at unique points in their evolution to determine how they form, evolve, and die.
They use this data to create models or simulations to theorize how different celestial objects work.
Today, that distinction has mostly disappeared and the terms "astronomer" and "astrophysicist" are interchangeable.
The American Astronomical Society, which is the major organization of professional astronomers in North America, has approximately 7,000 members.
The International Astronomical Union comprises almost 10,145 members from 70 countries who are involved in astronomical research at the PhD level and beyond.
Contrary to the classical image of an old astronomer peering through a telescope through the dark hours of the night, it is far more common to use a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera to record a long, deep exposure, allowing a more sensitive image to be created because the light is added over time.
Before CCDs, photographic plates were a common method of observation.
Modern astronomers spend relatively little time at telescopes usually just a few weeks per year.
ASCII ( ), abbreviated from American Standard Code for Information Interchange, is a character encoding standard for electronic communication.
ASCII codes represent text in computers, telecommunications equipment, and other devices.
Because of technical limitations of computer systems at the time it was invented, ASCII has just 128 code points, of which only 95 are , which severely limited its scope.
Modern computer systems have evolved to use Unicode, which has millions of code points, but the first 128 of these are the same as the ASCII set.
The Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) prefers the name US-ASCII for this character encoding.
ASCII is one of the IEEE milestones.
Overview ASCII was developed from telegraph code.
Its first commercial use was in the Teletype Model 33 and the Teletype Model 35 as a seven-bit teleprinter code promoted by Bell data services.
Work on the ASCII standard began in May 1961, with the first meeting of the American Standards Association's (ASA) (now the American National Standards Institute or ANSI) X3.2 subcommittee.
The first edition of the standard was published in 1963, underwent a major revision during 1967, and experienced its most recent update during 1986.
Compared to earlier telegraph codes, the proposed Bell code and ASCII were both ordered for more convenient sorting (i.e., alphabetization) of lists and added features for devices other than teleprinters.
The use of ASCII format for Network Interchange was described in 1969.
That document was formally elevated to an Internet Standard in 2015.
Originally based on the (modern) English alphabet, ASCII encodes 128 specified characters into seven-bit integers as shown by the ASCII chart in this article.
Ninety-five of the encoded characters are printable: these include the digits 0 to 9, lowercase letters a to z, uppercase letters A to Z, and punctuation symbols.
In addition, the original ASCII specification included 33 non-printing control codes which originated with s; most of these are now obsolete, although a few are still commonly used, such as the carriage return, line feed, and tab codes.
For example, lowercase i would be represented in the ASCII encoding by binary 1101001 = hexadecimal 69 (i is the ninth letter) = decimal 105.
Despite being an American standard, ASCII does not have a code point for the cent (¢).
It also does not support English terms with diacritical marks such as résumé and jalapeño, or proper nouns with diacritical marks such as Beyoncé.
The ASA later became the United States of America Standards Institute (USASI) and ultimately became the American National Standards Institute (ANSI).
With the other special characters and con
In traditional animation, images are drawn or painted by hand on transparent celluloid sheets (cels) to be photographed and exhibited on film.
Animation has been recognized as an artistic medium, specifically within the entertainment industry.
Many animations are computer animations made with computer-generated imagery (CGI).
Stop motion animation, in particular claymation, has continued to exist alongside these other forms.
Animation is contrasted with live-action film, although the two do not exist in isolation.
Many moviemakers have produced films that are a hybrid of the two.
As CGI increasingly approximates photographic imagery, filmmakers can easily composite 3D animations into their film rather than using practical effects for showy visual effects (VFX).
General overview Computer animation can be very detailed 3D animation, while 2D computer animation (which may have the look of traditional animation) can be used for stylistic reasons, low bandwidth, or faster real-time renderings.
Other common animation methods apply a stop motion technique to two- and three-dimensional objects like paper cutouts, puppets, or clay figures.
A cartoon is an animated film, usually a short film, featuring an exaggerated visual style.
The style takes inspiration from comic strips, often featuring anthropomorphic animals, superheroes, or the adventures of human protagonists.
Especially with animals that form a natural predator/prey relationship (e.g.
cats and mice, coyotes and birds), the action often centers on violent pratfalls such as falls, collisions, and explosions that would be lethal in real life.
The illusion of animation—as in motion pictures in general—has traditionally been attributed to the persistence of vision and later to the phi phenomenon and beta movement, but the exact neurological causes are still uncertain.
The illusion of motion caused by a rapid succession of images that minimally differ from each other, with unnoticeable interruptions, is a stroboscopic effect.
While animators traditionally used to draw each part of the movements and changes of figures on transparent cels that could be moved over a separate background, computer animation is usually based on programming paths between key frames to maneuver digitally created figures throughout a digitally created environment.
Analog mechanical animation media that rely on the rapid display of sequential images include the phénakisticope, zoetrope, flip book, praxinoscope, and film.
Television and video are popular electronic animation media that originally were analog and now operate digitally.
For display on computers, technology such as the animated GIF and Flash animation were developed.
In addition to short films, feature films, television series, animated GIFs, and other media dedicated to the display of moving images, animation is also preval
Apollo or Apollon is one of the Olympian deities in classical Greek and Roman religion and Greek and Roman mythology.
Apollo has been recognized as a god of archery, music and dance, truth and prophecy, healing and diseases, the Sun and light, poetry, and more.
One of the most important and complex of the Greek gods, he is the son of Zeus and Leto, and the twin brother of Artemis, goddess of the hunt.
He is considered to be the most beautiful god and is represented as the ideal of the kouros (ephebe, or a beardless, athletic youth).
Apollo is known in Greek-influenced Etruscan mythology as Apulu.
As the patron deity of Delphi (Apollo Pythios), Apollo is an oracular god—the prophetic deity of the Delphic Oracle and also the deity of ritual purification.
His oracles were often consulted for guidance in various matters.
Medicine and healing are associated with Apollo, whether through the god himself or mediated through his son Asclepius.
Apollo delivered people from epidemics, yet he is also a god who could bring ill health and deadly plague with his arrows.
The invention of archery itself is credited to Apollo and his sister Artemis.
Apollo is usually described as carrying a silver or golden bow and a quiver of silver or golden arrows.
As the god of mousike, Apollo presides over all music, songs, dance and poetry.
He is the inventor of string-music and the frequent companion of the Muses, functioning as their chorus leader in celebrations.
The lyre is a common attribute of Apollo.
Protection of the young is one of the best attested facets of his panhellenic cult persona.
As a , Apollo is concerned with the health and education of children, and he presided over their passage into adulthood.
Long hair, which was the prerogative of boys, was cut at the coming of age () and dedicated to Apollo.
The god himself is depicted with long, uncut hair to symbolise his eternal youth.
Apollo is an important pastoral deity, and was the patron of herdsmen and shepherds.
Protection of herds, flocks and crops from diseases, pests and predators were his primary rustic duties.
On the other hand, Apollo also encouraged the founding of new towns and the establishment of civil constitutions, is associated with dominion over colonists, and was the giver of laws.
Apollo Agyieus was the protector of the streets, public places and home entrances.
Etymology Apollo (Attic, Ionic, and Homeric Greek: , ( ); Dori
Andre Kirk Agassi ( ; born April 29, 1970) is an American former world No.
He is an eight-time major champion and an Olympic gold medalist, as well as a runner-up in seven other majors.
Agassi is widely considered one of the greatest tennis players of all time.
Agassi is the second of five men to achieve the career Grand Slam in the Open Era and the fifth of eight overall to make the achievement.
He is also the first of two men to achieve the career Golden Slam (career Grand Slam and Olympic gold medal), as well as the only man to win a career Super Slam (career Grand Slam, plus the Olympic gold medal and the year-end championships).
Agassi was the first man to win all four singles majors on three different surfaces (hard, clay and grass), and remains the most recent American man to win the French Open (in 1999) and the Australian Open (in 2003).
He also won 17 Masters titles and was part of the winning Davis Cup teams in 1990, 1992 and 1995.
141 in 1997, prompting many to believe that his career was over.
1 in 1999 and enjoyed the most successful run of his career over the next four years.
During his 20-plus year tour career, Agassi was known by the nickname "The Punisher".
After suffering from sciatica caused by two bulging discs in his back, a spondylolisthesis (vertebral displacement) and a bone spur that interfered with the nerve, Agassi retired from professional tennis on September 3, 2006, after losing in the third round of the US Open.
He is the founder of the Andre Agassi Charitable Foundation, which has raised over $60 million for at-risk children in Southern Nevada.
In 2001, the Foundation opened the Andre Agassi College Preparatory Academy in Las Vegas, a K–12 public charter school for at-risk children.
He has been married to fellow tennis player Steffi Graf since 2001.
Early life Andre Agassi was born in Las Vegas, Nevada, to Emmanuel "Mike" Agassi (Aghassian), a former Olympic boxer from Iran, and American Elizabeth "Betty" Agassi (née Dudley).
His father is of Armenian and Assyrian heritage.
Andre Agassi's mother, Betty, is a breast cancer survivor.
He has three older siblings – Rita (last wife of former number one Pancho Gonzales), Philip and Tami.
Andre was given the middle name Kirk after Kirk Kerkorian, an Armenian American billionaire.
Emmanuel Agassi, then a waiter at Tropicana Las Vegas, had met Kerkorian in 1963.
At the age of 12, Agassi and his good friend and doubles partner, Roddy Parks, won the 1982 National Indoor Boys 14s Doubles Championship in Chicago.
Agassi describes memorable experiences and juvenile pranks with Roddy in his book Open.
When he was 13, Agassi was sent to Nick Bollettieri's Tennis Academy in Florida.
He was meant to stay for only three months, because that was all his father could afford.
The Austroasiatic languages are a large language family spoken throughout mainland Southeast Asia, South Asia and East Asia.
These languages are natively spoken by the majority of the population in Vietnam and Cambodia, and by minority populations scattered throughout parts of Thailand, Laos, India, Myanmar, Malaysia, Bangladesh, Nepal, and southern China.
Approximately 117 million people speak an Austroasiatic language, of which more than two-thirds are Vietnamese speakers.
Of the Austroasiatic languages, only Vietnamese, Khmer, and Mon have lengthy, established presences in the historical record.
Only two are presently considered to be the national languages of sovereign states: Vietnamese in Vietnam, and Khmer in Cambodia.
The Mon language is a recognized indigenous language in Myanmar and Thailand, while the Wa language is a 'recognized national language' in the de facto autonomous Wa State within Myanmar.
Santali is one of the 22 scheduled languages of India.
The remainder of the family's languages are spoken by minority groups and have no official status.
Ethnologue identifies 168 Austroasiatic languages.
These form thirteen established families (plus perhaps Shompen, which is poorly attested, as a fourteenth), which have traditionally been grouped into two, as Mon–Khmer, and Munda.
Austroasiatic languages appear to be the extant autochthonous languages in mainland Southeast Asia, with the neighboring Kra–Dai, Hmong-Mien, Austronesian, and Sino-Tibetan languages having arrived via later migrations.
Etymology The name Austroasiatic was coined by Wilhelm Schmidt () based on , the Latin word for "South" (but idiosyncratically used by Schmidt to refer to the southeast), and "Asia".
Despite the literal meaning of its name, only three Austroasiatic branches are actually spoken in South Asia: Khasic, Munda, and Nicobarese.
Typology Regarding word structure, Austroasiatic languages are well known for having an iambic "sesquisyllabic" pattern, with basic nouns and verbs consisting of an initial, unstressed, reduced minor syllable followed by a stressed, full syllable.
This reduction of presyllables has led to a variety of phonological shapes of the same original Proto-Austroasiatic prefixes, such as the causative prefix, ranging from CVC syllables to consonant clusters to single consonants among the modern languages.
As for word formation, most Austroasiatic languages have a variety of derivational prefixes, many have infixes, but suffixes are almost completely non-existent in most branches except Munda, and a few specialized exceptions in other Austroasiatic branches.
The Austroasiatic languages are further characterized as having unusually large vowel inventories and employing some sort of register contrast, either between modal (normal) voice
The Afroasiatic languages (or Afro-Asiatic, sometimes Afrasian), also known as Hamito-Semitic or Semito-Hamitic, are a language family (or "phylum") of about 400 languages spoken predominantly in West Asia, North Africa, the Horn of Africa, and parts of the Sahara and Sahel.
Over 500 million people are native speakers of an Afroasiatic language, constituting the fourth-largest language family after Indo-European, Sino-Tibetan, and Niger–Congo.
Most linguists divide the family into six branches: Berber, Chadic, Cushitic, Egyptian, Semitic, and Omotic.
The vast majority of Afroasiatic languages are considered indigenous to the African continent, including all those not belonging to the Semitic branch.
Arabic, if counted as a single language, is by far the most widely spoken within the family, with around 300 million native speakers concentrated primarily in the Middle East and North Africa.
Other major Afroasiatic languages include the Chadic Hausa language with over 34 million native speakers, the Semitic Amharic language with 34 million, the Cushitic Oromo language with 35 million, and the Cushitic Somali language with 22 million.
Other Afroasiatic languages with millions of native speakers include the Cushitic Sidaama language, the Semitic Tigrinya language and the Omotic Wolaitta language, though most languages within the family are much smaller in size.
There are many well-attested Afroasiatic languages from antiquity that have since died or gone extinct, including Egyptian and the Semitic languages Akkadian, Biblical Hebrew, Phoenician, Amorite, and Ugaritic.
There is no consensus among historical linguists as to precisely where or when the common ancestor of all Afroasiatic languages, known as Proto-Afroasiatic, was originally spoken.
However, most agree that the Proto-Afroasiatic homeland was located somewhere in northeastern Africa, with specific proposals including the Horn of Africa, Egypt, the eastern Sahara.
A significant minority of scholars argues for an origin in the Levant.
The reconstructed timelines of when Proto-Afroasiatic was spoken vary extensively, with dates ranging from 18,000 BC to 8,000 BC.
Even the latest plausible dating makes Afroasiatic the oldest language family accepted by contemporary linguists.
Comparative study of Afroasiatic is hindered by the massive disparities in textual attestation between its branches: while the Semitic and Egyptian branches are attested in writing as early as the fourth millennium BC, Berber, Cushitic, and Omotic languages were often not recorded until the 19th or 20th centuries.
While systematic sound laws have not yet been established to explain the relationships between the various branches of Afroasiatic, the languages share a number of common features.
One of the most important for establishing membership in the branch is a common set of pronouns.
Other widely shared features include a prefix m- which creates nouns from verbs, evidence for alternations between the vowel "a" and a h
Believed to have been created by Charlemagne, Andorra was ruled by the count of Urgell until 988, when it was transferred to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Urgell.
The present principality was formed by a charter in 1278.
It is currently headed by two co-princes: the bishop of Urgell in Catalonia, Spain and the president of France.
Andorra is the sixth-smallest state in Europe, with an area of and a population of approximately .
The Andorran people are a Romance ethnic group closely related to Catalans.
The official language is Catalan, but Spanish, Occitan, and French are also commonly spoken.
Andorra is not a member state of the European Union.
It has been a member of the United Nations since 1993.
Etymology The origin of the word Andorra is unknown, although several hypotheses have been proposed.
The word Andosini or Andosins () may derive from the Basque , meaning "big" or "giant".
The Andorran toponymy shows evidence of Basque language in the area.
Another theory suggests that the word Andorra may derive from the old word Anorra that contains the Basque word ("water").
Another theory suggests that Andorra may derive from Arabic (), indicating a vast land which is located among mountains or a thickly wooded place (with being the definite article).
When the Moors conquered the Iberian Peninsula, the valleys of the High Pyrenees were covered by large tracts of forest.
These regions were not administered by Muslims, because of the geographic difficulty of direct rule.
Other theories suggest that the term derives from the Navarro-Aragonese "andurrial", which means "land covered with bushes" or "scrubland".
The folk etymology holds that Charlemagne had named the region as a reference to the Biblical Canaanite valley of Endor or Andor (where the Midianites had been defeated), a name bestowed by his heir and son Louis the Pious after defeating the Moors in the "wild valleys of Hell".
History Prehistory La Balma de la Margineda, found by archaeologists at Sant Julià de Lòria, was settled in 9,500 BCE as a passing place between the two sides of the Pyrenees.
The seasonal camp was perfectly located for hunting and fishing by the gro
The collection is often a set of results from an experiment, an observational study, or a survey.
For example, per capita income is the arithmetic average income of a nation's population.
While the arithmetic mean is often used to report central tendencies, it is not a robust statistic: it is greatly influenced by outliers (values much larger or smaller than most others).
For skewed distributions, such as the distribution of income for which a few people's incomes are substantially higher than most people's, the arithmetic mean may not coincide with one's notion of "middle".
In that case, robust statistics, such as the median, may provide a better description of central tendency.
Definition Given a data set , the arithmetic mean (also mean or average), denoted (read bar), is the mean of the values .
The arithmetic mean is a data set's most commonly used and readily understood measure of central tendency.
In statistics, the term average refers to any measurement of central tendency.
The arithmetic mean of a set of observed data is equal to the sum of the numerical values of each observation, divided by the total number of observations.
Symbolically, for a data set consisting of the values , the arithmetic mean is defined by the formula: (For an explanation of the summation operator, see summation.) For example, if the monthly salaries of employees are , then the arithmetic mean is: If the data set is a statistical population (i.e., consists of every possible observation and not just a subset of them), then the mean of that population is called the population mean and denoted by the Greek letter .
If the data set is a statistical sample (a subset of the population), it is called the sample mean (which for a data set is denoted as ).
The arithmetic mean can be similarly defined for vectors in multiple dimensions, not only scalar values; this is often referred to as a centroid.
More generally, because the arithmetic mean is a convex combination (meaning its coefficients sum to ), it can be defined on a convex space, not only a vector space.
Motivating properties The arithmetic mean has several properties that make it interesting, especially as a measure of central tendency.
These include: If numbers have mean , then .
Since is the distance from a given number to the mean, one way to interpret this property is by saying that the numbers to the left of the mean are balanced by the nu
The American Football Conference (AFC) is one of the two conferences of the National Football League (NFL), the highest professional level of American football in the United States.
The AFC and its counterpart, the National Football Conference (NFC), each contain 16 teams with 4 divisions.
Both conferences were created as part of the 1970 merger between the National Football League, and the American Football League (AFL).
All ten of the AFL teams, and three NFL teams, became members of the new AFC, with the remaining thirteen NFL teams forming the NFC.
Teams Like the NFC, the conference has 16 teams organized into four divisions each with four teams: East, North, South and West.
Season structure This chart of the 2022 season standings displays an application of the NFL scheduling formula.
The Chiefs in 2022 (highlighted in green) finished in first place in the AFC West.
Thus, in 2023, the Chiefs will play two games against each of its division rivals (highlighted in light blue), one game against each team in the AFC East and NFC North (highlighted in yellow), and one game each against the first-place finishers in the AFC North, AFC South (highlighted in orange) and NFC East (highlighted in pink).
This assignment shifts each year and will follow a standard cycle.
Using the 2023 regular season schedule as an example, each team in the AFC West plays against every team in the AFC East and NFC North.
In this way, non-divisional competition will be mostly among common opponents – the exception being the three games assigned based on the team's prior-season divisional standing.
At the end of each season, the four division winners and three wild cards (non-division winners with best regular season record) in the AFC qualify for the playoffs.
The AFC playoffs culminate in the AFC Championship Game, with the winner receiving the Lamar Hunt Trophy.
The AFC champion then plays the NFC champion in the Super Bowl.
History Both the AFC and the NFC were created after the NFL merged with the American Football League (AFL) in 1970.
The AFL began play in 1960 with eight teams, and added two more expansion clubs (the Miami Dolphins i
Animal Farm is a beast fable, in the form of a satirical allegorical novella, by George Orwell, first published in England on 17 August 1945.
It tells the story of a group of anthropomorphic farm animals who rebel against their human farmer, hoping to create a society where the animals can be equal, free, and happy.
Ultimately, the rebellion is betrayed and, under the dictatorship of a pig named Napoleon, the farm ends up in a state as bad as it was before.
In a letter to Yvonne Davet, Orwell described Animal Farm as a satirical tale against Stalin (""), and in his essay "Why I Write" (1946), wrote that Animal Farm was the first book in which he tried, with full consciousness of what he was doing, "to fuse political purpose and artistic purpose into one whole".
The original title was Animal Farm: A Fairy Story, but US publishers dropped the subtitle when it was published in 1946, and only one of the translations during Orwell's lifetime, the Telugu version, kept it.
Other title variations include subtitles like "A Satire" and "A Contemporary Satire".
Orwell suggested the title for the French translation, which abbreviates to URSA, the Latin word for "bear", a symbol of Russia.
It also played on the French name of the Soviet Union, .
The manuscript was initially rejected by several British and American publishers, including one of Orwell's own, Victor Gollancz, which delayed its publication.
Plot summary The animal populace of the poorly run Manor Farm near Willingdon, England, is ripened for rebellion by neglect at the hands of the irresponsible and alcoholic farmer, Mr.
One night, the exalted boar, Old Major, holds a conference, at which he calls for the overthrow of humans and teaches the animals a rev
Amphibians are ectothermic, anamniotic, four-limbed vertebrate animals that constitute the class Amphibia.
They are a paraphyletic group encompassing all tetrapods excluding the amniotes (tetrapods with an amniotic membrane, such as modern reptiles, birds, and mammals).
All extant (living) amphibians belong to the subclass Lissamphibia, with three living orders: Anura (frogs), Urodela (salamanders), and Gymnophiona (caecilians).
Evolved to be mostly semiaquatic, amphibians have adapted to inhabit a wide variety of habitats, with most species living in freshwater, wetland or terrestrial ecosystems (such as riparian woodland, fossorial and even arboreal habitats).
Their life cycle typically starts out as aquatic larvae with gills known as tadpoles, but some species have developed behavioural adaptations to bypass this.
The young generally undergo metamorphosis from larva with gills to an adult air-breathing form with lungs.
Amphibians use their skin as a secondary respiratory surface and some small terrestrial salamanders and frogs lack lungs and rely entirely on their skin.
They are superficially similar to reptiles like lizards, but unlike reptiles and other amniotes, require water bodies in which to breed.
With their complex reproductive needs and permeable skins, amphibians are often ecological indicators; in recent decades there has been a dramatic decline in amphibian populations for many species around the globe.
The earliest amphibians evolved in the Devonian period from sarcopterygian fish with lungs and bony-limbed fins, features that were helpful in adapting to dry land.
They diversified and became ecologically dominant during the Carboniferous and Permian periods, but were later displaced in terrestrial environments by early reptiles and basal synapsids (mammal predecessors).
The origin of modern amphibians belonging to Lissamphibia, which first appeared during the Early Triassic, around 250 million years ago, has long been contentious.
However the emerging consensus is that they likely originated from temnospondyls, the most diverse group of prehistoric amphibians, during the Permian period.
The three modern orders of amphibians are Anura (the frogs), Urodela (the salamanders), and Apoda (the caecilians).
A fourth group, the Albanerpetontidae, became extinct around 2 million years ago.
The number of known amphibian species is approximately 8,000, of which nearly 90% are frogs.
The smallest amphibian (and vertebrate) in the world is a frog from New Guinea (Paedophryne amauensis) with a length of just .
The study of amphibians is called batrachology, while the study of both reptiles and amphibians is called herpetology.
Classification The word amphibian is derived from the Ancient Greek term (), which means 'both kinds of life', meaning 'of
Alaska ( ) is a non-contiguous U.S.
state on the northwest extremity of North America.
It borders British Columbia and Yukon in Canada to the east and it shares a western maritime border in the Bering Strait with Russia's Chukotka Autonomous Okrug.
Technically a semi-exclave of the U.S., Alaska is the largest exclave in the world.
state by area, comprising more total area than the next three largest states of Texas, California and Montana combined and is the seventh-largest subnational division in the world.
It is the third-least populous and most sparsely populated U.S.
state, but with a population of 736,081 as of 2020, is the continent's most populous territory located mostly north of the 60th parallel, with more than quadruple the combined populations of Northern Canada and Greenland.
Approximately half of Alaska's residents live within the Anchorage metropolitan area.
Indigenous people have lived in Alaska for thousands of years, and it is widely believed that the region served as the entry point for the initial settlement of North America by way of the Bering land bridge.
The expense and logistical difficulty of maintaining this distant possession prompted its sale to the U.S.
in 1867 for US$7.2 million (equivalent to $ million in ).
The area went through several administrative changes before becoming organized as a territory on May 11, 1912.
It was admitted as the 49th state of the U.S.
Abundant natural resources have enabled Alaska—with one of the smallest state economies—to have one of the highest per capita incomes, with commercial fishing, and the extraction of natural gas and oil, dominating Alaska's economy.
Armed Forces bases and tourism also contribute to the economy; more than half the state is federally-owned land containing national forests, national parks, and wildlife refuges.
It is among the most irreligious states, one of the first to legalize recreational marijuana, and is known for its libertarian-leaning political culture, generally supporting the Republican Party in national elections.
The Indigenous population of Alaska is proportionally the highest of any U.S.
Various Indigenous languages are spoken, and Alaskan Natives are influential in local and state politics.
Etymology The name "Alaska" () was introduced in the Russian colonial period when it was used to refer to the Alaska Peninsula.
Agriculture encompasses crop and livestock production, aquaculture, fisheries and forestry for food and non-food products.
Agriculture was the key development in the rise of sedentary human civilization, whereby farming of domesticated species created food surpluses that enabled people to live in cities.
While humans started gathering grains at least 105,000 years ago, nascent farmers only began planting them around 11,500 years ago.
Sheep, goats, pigs and cattle were domesticated around 10,000 years ago.
Plants were independently cultivated in at least 11 regions of the world.
Today, small farms produce about a third of the world's food, but large farms are prevalent.
The largest one percent of farms in the world are greater than 50 hectares and operate more than 70 percent of the world's farmland.
Nearly 40 percent of agricultural land is found on farms larger than 1,000 hectares.
However, five of every six farms in the world consist of less than two hectares and take up only around 12 percent of all agricultural land.
Farms and farming greatly influence rural economics and greatly shape rural society, effecting both the direct agricultural workforce and broader businesses that support the farms and farming populations.
The major agricultural products can be broadly grouped into foods, fibers, fuels, and raw materials (such as rubber).
Global agricultural production amounts to approximately 11 billion tonnes of food, 32 million tonnes of natural fibres and 4 billion m3 of wood.
However, around 14 percent of the world's food is lost from production before reaching the retail level.
Modern agronomy, plant breeding, agrochemicals such as pesticides and fertilizers, and technological developments have sharply increased crop yields, but also contributed to ecological and environmental damage.
Selective breeding and modern practices in animal husbandry have similarly increased the output of meat, but have raised concerns about animal welfare and environmental damage.
Environmental issues include contributions to climate change, depletion of aquifers, deforestation, antibiotic resistance, and other agricultural pollution.
Agriculture is both a cause of and sensitive to environmental degradation, such as biodiversity loss, desertification, soil degradation, and climate change, all of which can cause decreases in crop yield.
Genetically modified organisms are widely used, although some countries ban them.
Etymology and scope The word agriculture is a late Middle English adaptation of Latin , from 'field' and 'cultivation' or 'growing'.
While agriculture usually refers to human activities, certain species of ant, termite and beetle have been cultivating crops for up to 60 million years.
Agriculture is defined with varying sco
Aldous Leonard Huxley ( ; 26 July 1894 – 22 November 1963) was an English writer and philosopher.
His bibliography spans nearly 50 books, including novels and non-fiction works, as well as essays, narratives, and poems.
Born into the prominent Huxley family, he graduated from Balliol College, Oxford, with an undergraduate degree in English literature.
Early in his career, he published short stories and poetry and edited the literary magazine Oxford Poetry, before going on to publish travel writing, satire, and screenplays.
He spent the latter part of his life in the United States, living in Los Angeles from 1937 until his death.
By the end of his life, Huxley was widely acknowledged as one of the foremost intellectuals of his time.
He was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature nine times, and was elected Companion of Literature by the Royal Society of Literature in 1962.
In his most famous novel Brave New World and his final novel Island, he presented his visions of dystopia and utopia, respectively.
Early life Huxley was born in Godalming, Surrey, England, in 1894.
He was the third son of the writer and schoolmaster Leonard Huxley, who edited The Cornhill Magazine, and his first wife, Julia Arnold, who founded Prior's Field School.
Julia was the niece of poet and critic Matthew Arnold and the sister of Mrs.
Julia named him Aldous after a character in one of her sister's novels.
Aldous was the grandson of Thomas Henry Huxley, the zoologist, agnostic, and controversialist who had often been called "Darwin's Bulldog".
His brother Julian Huxley and half-brother Andrew Huxley also became outstanding biologists.
Aldous had another brother, Noel Trevenen Huxley (1889–1914), who took his own life after a period of clinical depression.
As a child, Huxley's nickname was "Ogie", short for "Ogre".
He was described by his brother, Julian, as someone who frequently [contemplated] the strangeness of things".
According to his cousin and contemporary Gervas Huxley, he had an early interest in drawing.
Huxley's education began in his father's well-equipped botanical laboratory, after which he enrolled at Hillside School near Godalming.
He was taught there by his own mother for several years until she became terminally ill.
After Hillside he went on to Eton College.
His mother died in 1908, when he was 14 (his father later remarried).
He contracted the eye disease Keratitis punctata in 1911; this "left [him] practically blind for two to three years" and "ended his early dreams of becoming a doctor".
In October 1913, Huxley entered Balliol College, Oxford, where he studied English literature.
Ada Airport, Saipan Island, Northern Mariana Islands Schools Ada, the National College for Digital Skills, a further education college in Tottenham Hale, London Ada High School (Ohio) Ada Independent School District, Oklahoma People Ada (name), a feminine given name and a surname, including a list of people and fictional characters Ada Lovelace (1815–1852), computer scientist sometimes regarded as the first computer programmer Ada of Caria (fl.
Algae (, ; : alga ) is an informal term for a large and diverse group of photosynthetic, eukaryotic organisms.
It is a polyphyletic grouping that includes species from multiple distinct clades.
Included organisms range from unicellular microalgae, such as Chlorella, Prototheca and the diatoms, to multicellular forms, such as the giant kelp, a large brown alga which may grow up to in length.
Most are aquatic and lack many of the distinct cell and tissue types, such as stomata, xylem and phloem that are found in land plants.
The largest and most complex marine algae are called seaweeds, while the most complex freshwater forms are the Charophyta, a division of green algae which includes, for example, Spirogyra and stoneworts.
Algae that are carried by water are plankton, specifically phytoplankton.
Algae constitute a polyphyletic group since they do not include a common ancestor, and although their plastids seem to have a single origin, from cyanobacteria, they were acquired in different ways.
Green algae are examples of algae that have primary chloroplasts derived from endosymbiotic cyanobacteria.
Diatoms and brown algae are examples of algae with secondary chloroplasts derived from an endosymbiotic red alga.
Algae exhibit a wide range of reproductive strategies, from simple asexual cell division to complex forms of sexual reproduction.
Algae lack the various structures that characterize land plants, such as the phyllids (leaf-like structures) of bryophytes, rhizoids of non-vascular plants, and the roots, leaves, and other organs found in tracheophytes (vascular plants).
Most are phototrophic, although some are mixotrophic, deriving energy both from photosynthesis and uptake of organic carbon either by osmotrophy, myzotrophy, or phagotrophy.
Some unicellular species of green algae, many golden algae, euglenids, dinoflagellates, and other algae have become heterotrophs (also called colorless or apochlorotic algae), sometimes parasitic, relying entirely on external energy sources and have limited or no photosynthetic apparatus.
Some other heterotrophic organisms, such as the apicomplexans, are also derived from cells whose ancestors possessed plastids, but are not traditionally considered as algae.
Algae have photosynthetic machinery ultimately derived from cyanobacteria that produce oxygen as a by-product of photosynthesis, unlike other photosynthetic bacteria such as purple and green sulfur bacteria.
Fossilized filamentous algae from the Vindhya basin have been dated back to 1.6 to 1.7 billion years ago.
Because of the wide range of types of algae, they have increasing different industrial and traditional applications in human society.
Traditional seaweed farming practices have existed for thousands of years and have strong traditions in East Asia food cultures.
More modern algaculture applications extend the food traditions for other applications include cattle feed, using algae for bioremediation or pollution control, transforming sunlight in
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) is a collection of statistical models and their associated estimation procedures (such as the "variation" among and between groups) used to analyze the differences among means.
ANOVA was developed by the statistician Ronald Fisher.
ANOVA is based on the law of total variance, where the observed variance in a particular variable is partitioned into components attributable to different sources of variation.
In its simplest form, ANOVA provides a statistical test of whether two or more population means are equal, and therefore generalizes the t-test beyond two means.
In other words, the ANOVA is used to test the difference between two or more means.
These include hypothesis testing, the partitioning of sums of squares, experimental techniques and the additive model.
Laplace was performing hypothesis testing in the 1770s.
It also initiated much study of the contributions to sums of squares.
Laplace knew how to estimate a variance from a residual (rather than a total) sum of squares.
By 1827, Laplace was using least squares methods to address ANOVA problems regarding measurements of atmospheric tides.
Before 1800, astronomers had isolated observational errors resulting from reaction times (the "personal equation") and had developed methods of reducing the errors.
The experimental methods used in the study of the personal equation were later accepted by the emerging field of psychology which developed strong (full factorial) experimental methods to which randomization and blinding were soon added.
An eloquent non-mathematical explanation of the additive effects model was available in 1885.
Ronald Fisher introduced the term variance and proposed its formal analysis in a 1918 article on theoretical population genetics,The Correlation Between Relatives on the Supposition of Mendelian Inheritance.
His first application of the analysis of variance to data analysis was published in 1921, Studies in Crop Variation I, This divided the variation of a time series into components representing annual causes and slow deterioration.
Fisher's next piece, Studies in Crop Variation II, written with Winifred Mackenzie and published in 1923, studied the variation in yield across plots sown with different varieties and subjected to different fertiliser treatments.
Analysis of variance became widely known after being included in Fisher's 1925 book Statistical Methods for Research Workers.
Randomization models were developed by several researchers.
The first was published in Polish by Jerzy Neyman in 1923.
Example The analysis of variance can be used to describe otherwise complex relations among variables.
A dog show provides an example.
In other words, an alkane consists of hydrogen and carbon atoms arranged in a tree structure in which all the carbon–carbon bonds are single.
Alkanes have the general chemical formula .
The alkanes range in complexity from the simplest case of methane (), where n = 1 (sometimes called the parent molecule), to arbitrarily large and complex molecules, like pentacontane () or 6-ethyl-2-methyl-5-(1-methylethyl) octane, an isomer of tetradecane ().
However, some sources use the term to denote any saturated hydrocarbon, including those that are either monocyclic (i.e.
the cycloalkanes) or polycyclic, despite their having a distinct general formula (i.e.
In an alkane, each carbon atom is sp3-hybridized with 4 sigma bonds (either C–C or C–H), and each hydrogen atom is joined to one of the carbon atoms (in a C–H bond).
The longest series of linked carbon atoms in a molecule is known as its carbon skeleton or carbon backbone.
The number of carbon atoms may be considered as the size of the alkane.
One group of the higher alkanes are waxes, solids at standard ambient temperature and pressure (SATP), for which the number of carbon atoms in the carbon backbone is greater than about 17.
With their repeated – units, the alkanes constitute a homologous series of organic compounds in which the members differ in molecular mass by multiples of 14.03 u (the total mass of each such methylene-bridge unit, which comprises a single carbon atom of mass 12.01 u and two hydrogen atoms of mass ~1.01 u each).
Methane is produced by methanogenic bacteria and some long-chain alkanes function as pheromones in certain animal species or as protective waxes in plants and fungi.
Nevertheless, most alkanes do not have much biological activity.
They can be viewed as molecular trees upon which can be hung the more active/reactive functional groups of biological molecules.
The alkanes have two main commercial sources: petroleum (crude oil) and natural gas.
An alkyl group is an alkane-based molecular fragment that bears one open valence for bonding.
They are generally abbreviated with the symbol for any organyl group, R, although Alk is sometimes used to specifically symbolize an alkyl group (as opposed to an alkenyl group or aryl group).
Structure and classification Ordinarily the C-C single bond distance is .
Saturated hydrocarbons can be linear, branched, or cyclic.
The third group is sometimes called cycloalkanes.
Very complicated structures are possible by combining linear, branch, cyclic alkanes.
Isomerism Alkanes with more than three carbon atoms can be arranged in various ways, fo
United States appellate procedure involves the rules and regulations for filing appeals in state courts and federal courts.
The nature of an appeal can vary greatly depending on the type of case and the rules of the court in the jurisdiction where the case was prosecuted.
There are many types of standard of review for appeals, such as de novo and abuse of discretion.
However, most appeals begin when a party files a petition for review to a higher court for the purpose of overturning the lower court's decision.
An appellate court is a court that hears cases on appeal from another court.
Depending on the particular legal rules that apply to each circumstance, a party to a court case who is unhappy with the result might be able to challenge that result in an appellate court on specific grounds.
These grounds typically could include errors of law, fact, procedure or due process.
In different jurisdictions, appellate courts are also called appeals courts, courts of appeals, superior courts, or supreme courts.
The specific procedures for appealing, including even whether there is a right of appeal from a particular type of decision, can vary greatly from state to state.
The right to file an appeal can also vary from state to state; for example, the New Jersey Constitution vests judicial power in a Supreme Court, a Superior Court, and other courts of limited jurisdiction, with an appellate court being part of the Superior Court.
Access to appellant status A party who files an appeal is called an "appellant", "plaintiff in error", "petitioner" or "pursuer", and a party on the other side is called an "appellee", "defendant in error", "respondent".
A "cross-appeal" is an appeal brought by the respondent.
For example, suppose at trial the judge found for the plaintiff and ordered the defendant to pay $50,000.
If the defendant files an appeal arguing that he should not have to pay any money, then the plaintiff might file a cross-appeal arguing that the defendant should have to pay $200,000 instead of $50,000.
The appellant is the party who, having lost part or all their claim in a lower court decision, is appealing to a higher court to have their case reconsidered.
This is usually done on the basis that the lower court judge erred in the application of law, but it may also be possible to appeal on the basis of court misconduct, or that a finding of fact was entirely unreasonable to make on the evidence.
The appellant in the new case can be either the plaintiff (or claimant), defendant, third-party intervenor, or respondent (appellee) from the lower case, depending on who was the losing party.
The winning party from the lower court, however, is now the respondent.
In unusual cases the appellant can be the victor in the court below, but still appeal.
An appellee is the party to an appeal in which the lower court judgment was in its favor.
The appellee is required to respond to the petition, oral arguments, and legal briefs of the appellant.
In law, an answer was originally a solemn assertion in opposition to someone or something, and thus generally any counter-statement or defense, a reply to a question or response, or objection, or a correct solution of a problem.
In the common law, an answer is the first pleading by a defendant, usually filed and served upon the plaintiff within a certain strict time limit after a civil complaint or criminal information or indictment has been served upon the defendant.
It may have been preceded by an optional "pre-answer" motion to dismiss or demurrer; if such a motion is unsuccessful, the defendant must file an answer to the complaint or risk an adverse default judgment.
In a criminal case, there is usually an arraignment or some other kind of appearance before the defendant comes to court.
The pleading in the criminal case, which is entered on the record in open court, is usually either guilty or not guilty.
There is only a judgment that grants money damages or some other kind of equitable remedy such as restitution or a permanent injunction.
Criminal cases may lead to fines or other punishment, such as imprisonment.
The famous Latin Responsa Prudentium ("answers of the learned ones") were the accumulated views of many successive generations of Roman lawyers, a body of legal opinion which gradually became authoritative.
During debates of a contentious nature, deflection, colloquially known as 'changing the topic', has been widely observed, and is often seen as a failure to answer a question.
Notes Common law Legal documents
An appellate court, commonly called a court of appeal(s), appeal court, court of second instance or second instance court, is any court of law that is empowered to hear an appeal of a trial court or other lower tribunal.
In much of the world, court systems are divided into at least three levels: the trial court, which initially hears cases and reviews evidence and testimony to determine the facts of the case; at least one intermediate appellate court; and a supreme court (or court of last resort) which primarily reviews the decisions of the intermediate courts, often on a discretionary basis.
A particular court system's supreme court is its highest appellate court.
Appellate courts nationwide can operate under varying rules.
Under its standard of review, an appellate court decides the extent of the deference it would give to the lower court's decision, based on whether the appeal were one of fact or of law.
In reviewing an issue of fact, an appellate court ordinarily gives deference to the trial court's findings.
It is the duty of trial judges or juries to find facts, view the evidence firsthand, and observe witness testimony.
When reviewing lower decisions on an issue of fact, courts of appeal generally look for clear error.
The appellate court reviews issues of law (anew, no deference) and may reverse or modify the lower court's decision if the appellate court believes the lower court misapplied the facts or the law.
An appellate court may also review the lower judge's discretionary decisions, such as whether the judge properly granted a new trial or disallowed evidence.
The lower court's decision is only changed in cases of an "abuse of discretion".
This standard tends to be even more deferential than the "clear error" standard.
Before hearing any case, the court must have jurisdiction to consider the appeal.
The authority of appellate courts to review the decisions of lower courts varies widely from one jurisdiction to another.
In some areas, the appellate court has limited powers of review.
Depending on the type of case and the decision below, appellate review primarily consists of: an entirely new hearing (a non trial de novo); a hearing where the appellate court gives deference to factual findings of the lower court; or review of particular legal rulings made by the lower court (an appeal on the record).
Bifurcation of civil and criminal appeals While many appellate courts have jurisdiction over all cases decided by lower courts, some systems have appellate courts divided by the type of jurisdiction they exercise.
Some jurisdictions have specialized appellate courts, such as the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals, which only hears appeals raised in criminal cases, and the U.S.
Arraignment is a formal reading of a criminal charging document in the presence of the defendant, to inform them of the charges against them.
In response to arraignment, in some jurisdictions, the accused is expected to enter a plea; in other jurisdictions, no plea is required.
Acceptable pleas vary among jurisdictions, but they generally include guilty, not guilty, and the peremptory pleas, or pleas in bar, setting out reasons why a trial cannot proceed.
Pleas of nolo contendere ('no contest') and the Alford plea are allowed in some circumstances.
The judge will testify during the indictment process.
Canada In British Columbia, arraignment takes place in one of the first few court appearances by the defendant or their lawyer.
The defendant is asked whether they plead guilty or not guilty to each charge.
France In France, the general rule is that one cannot remain in police custody for more than 24 hours from the time of the arrest.
The police need to have the consent of the prosecutor, the procureur.
In the vast majority of cases, the prosecutor will consent.
Germany In Germany, if one has been arrested and taken into custody by the police, one must be brought before a judge as soon as possible and at the latest on the day after the arrest.
New Zealand In New Zealand law, at the first appearance of the accused, they are read the charges and asked for a plea.
The available pleas are: guilty, not guilty, and no plea.
The response of "no plea" allows the defendant to get legal advice on the plea, which must be made on the second appearance.
South Africa In South Africa, arraignment is defined as the calling upon the accused to appear, the informing of the accused of the crime charged against them, the demanding of the accused whether they plead guilty or not guilty, and the entering of their plea.
In England and Wales, the police cannot legally detain anyone for more than 24 hours without charging them unless an officer with the rank of superintendent (or above) authorises detention for a further 12 hours (i.e.
36 hours total), or a judge (who will be a magistrate) authorises detention by the police before charge for up to a maximum of 96 hours; for terrorism-related offences a person can be held by the police for up to 28 days before charge.
If they are not released after being charged, t
"America the Beautiful" is a patriotic American song.
Its lyrics were written by Katharine Lee Bates and its music was composed by church organist and choirmaster Samuel A.
Bates wrote the words as a poem, originally entitled "Pikes Peak".
It was first published in the Fourth of July 1895 edition of the church periodical, The Congregationalist.
At that time, the poem was entitled "America".
The song is one of the most popular of the many American patriotic songs.
History In 1893, at the age of 33, Bates, an English professor at Wellesley College, had taken a train trip to Colorado Springs, Colorado, to teach at Colorado College.
On the pinnacle of that mountain, the words of the poem started to come to her, and she wrote them down upon returning to her hotel room at the original Antlers Hotel.
The poem was initially published two years later in The Congregationalist to commemorate the Fourth of July.
It quickly caught the public's fancy.
An amended version was published in 1904.
The first known melody written for the song was sent in by Silas Pratt when the poem was published in The Congregationalist.
By 1900, at least 75 different melodies had been written.
A hymn tune composed in 1882 by Samuel A.
He composed the tune for the old hymn "O Mother Dear, Jerusalem", retitling the work "Materna".
Bates was more fortunate, since the song's popularity was well established by the time of her death in 1929.
It is included in songbooks in many religious congregations in the United States.
At various times in the more than one hundred years that have elapsed since the song was written, particularly during the Jo
Assistive technology (AT) is a term for assistive, adaptive, and rehabilitative devices for people with disabilities and the elderly.
Disabled people often have difficulty performing activities of daily living (ADLs) independently, or even with assistance.
ADLs are self-care activities that include toileting, mobility (ambulation), eating, bathing, dressing, grooming, and personal device care.
Assistive technology can ameliorate the effects of disabilities that limit the ability to perform ADLs.
Assistive technology promotes greater independence by enabling people to perform tasks they were formerly unable to accomplish, or had great difficulty accomplishing, by providing enhancements to, or changing methods of interacting with, the technology needed to accomplish such tasks.
For example, wheelchairs provide independent mobility for those who cannot walk, while assistive eating devices can enable people who cannot feed themselves to do so.
Due to assistive technology, disabled people have an opportunity of a more positive and easygoing lifestyle, with an increase in "social participation", "security and control", and a greater chance to "reduce institutional costs without significantly increasing household expenses." In schools, assistive technology can be critical in allowing students with disabilities to access the general education curriculum.
Assistive technologies assist people who are recovering from strokes and people who have sustained injuries that affect their daily tasks.
Adaptive technology Adaptive technology and assistive technology are different.
Assistive technology is something that is used to help disabled people, while adaptive technology covers items that are specifically designed for disabled people and would seldom be used by a non-disabled person.
In other words, assistive technology is any object or system that helps people with disabilities, while adaptive technology is specifically designed for disabled people.
Consequently, adaptive technology is a subset of assistive technology.
Adaptive technology often refers specifically to electronic and information technology access.
Occupational therapy Occupational therapy (OT) is a healthcare profession that specializes in maintaining or improving the quality of life for individuals that experience challenges when independently performing life's occupations.
According to the Occupational Therapy Practice Framework: Domain and Process (3rd ed.; AOTA, 2014), occupations include areas related to all basic and instrumental activities of daily living (ADLs), rest and sleep, education, work, play, leisure and social participation.
Occupational therapists have the specialized skill of employing assistive technology (AT) in the improvement and maintenance of optimal, functional participation in occupations.
The application of AT enables an individual to adapt aspects o
The abacus (: abaci or abacuses), also called a counting frame, is a hand-operated calculating tool of unknown origin used since ancient times in the ancient Near East, Europe, China, and Russia, millennia before the adoption of the Hindu-Arabic numeral system.
The abacus consists of a two-dimensional array of slidable beads (or similar objects).
In their earliest designs, the beads could be loose on a flat surface or sliding in grooves.
Later the beads were made to slide on rods and built into a frame, allowing faster manipulation.
Each rod typically represents one digit of a multi-digit number laid out using a positional numeral system such as base ten (though some cultures used different numerical bases).
Roman and East Asian abacuses use a system resembling bi-quinary coded decimal, with a top deck (containing one or two beads) representing fives and a bottom deck (containing four or five beads) representing ones.
Natural numbers are normally used, but some allow simple fractional components (e.g.
, , and in Roman abacus), and a decimal point can be imagined for fixed-point arithmetic.
Any particular abacus design supports multiple methods to perform calculations, including addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and square and cube roots.
The beads are first arranged to represent a number, then are manipulated to perform a mathematical operation with another number, and their final position can be read as the result (or can be used as the starting number for subsequent operations).
In the ancient world, abacuses were a practical calculating tool.
Although calculators and computers are commonly used today instead of abacuses, abacuses remain in everyday use in some countries.
The abacus has an advantage of not requiring a writing implement and paper (needed for algorism) or an electric power source.
Merchants, traders, and clerks in some parts of Eastern Europe, Russia, China, and Africa use abacuses.
The abacus remains in common use as a scoring system in non-electronic table games.
Others may use an abacus due to visual impairment that prevents the use of a calculator.
Etymology The word abacus dates to at least AD 1387 when a Middle English work borrowed the word from Latin that described a sandboard abacus.
The Latin word is derived from ancient Greek (abax) which means something without a base, and colloquially, any piece of rectangular material.
While the table strewn with dust definition is popular, some argue evidence is insufficient for that conclusion.
Greek probably borrowed from a Northwest Semitic language like Phoenician, e
An acid is a molecule or ion capable of either donating a proton (i.e.
hydrogen ion, H+), known as a Brønsted–Lowry acid, or forming a covalent bond with an electron pair, known as a Lewis acid.
The first category of acids are the proton donors, or Brønsted–Lowry acids.
In the special case of aqueous solutions, proton donors form the hydronium ion H3O+ and are known as Arrhenius acids.
Brønsted and Lowry generalized the Arrhenius theory to include non-aqueous solvents.
A Brønsted or Arrhenius acid usually contains a hydrogen atom bonded to a chemical structure that is still energetically favorable after loss of H+.
Aqueous Arrhenius acids have characteristic properties that provide a practical description of an acid.
Acids form aqueous solutions with a sour taste, can turn blue litmus red, and react with bases and certain metals (like calcium) to form salts.
The word acid is derived from the Latin , meaning 'sour'.
An aqueous solution of an acid has a pH less than 7 and is colloquially also referred to as "acid" (as in "dissolved in acid"), while the strict definition refers only to the solute.
A lower pH means a higher acidity, and thus a higher concentration of positive hydrogen ions in the solution.
Chemicals or substances having the property of an acid are said to be acidic.
Common aqueous acids include hydrochloric acid (a solution of hydrogen chloride that is found in gastric acid in the stomach and activates digestive enzymes), acetic acid (vinegar is a dilute aqueous solution of this liquid), sulfuric acid (used in car batteries), and citric acid (found in citrus fruits).
As these examples show, acids (in the colloquial sense) can be solutions or pure substances, and can be derived from acids (in the strict sense) that are solids, liquids, or gases.
Strong acids and some concentrated weak acids are corrosive, but there are exceptions such as carboranes and boric acid.
The second category of acids are Lewis acids, which form a covalent bond with an electron pair.
An example is boron trifluoride (BF3), whose boron atom has a vacant orbital that can form a covalent bond by sharing a lone pair of electrons on an atom in a base, for example the nitrogen atom in ammonia (NH3).
Lewis considered this as a generalization of the Brønsted definition, so that an acid is a chemical species that accepts electron pairs either directly or by releasing protons (H+) into the solution, which then accept electron pairs.
Hydrogen chloride, acetic acid, and most other Brønsted–Lowry acids cannot form a covalent bond with an electron pair, however, and are therefore not Lewis acids.
Conversely, many Lewis acids are not Arrhenius or Brønsted–Lowry acids.
In modern terminology, an acid is implicitly a Brønsted acid and not a Lewis acid, since chemists almost always refer to a Lewis acid explicitly as a Lewis acid.
Bitumen (, ) is an immensely viscous constituent of petroleum.
Depending on its exact composition it can be a sticky, black liquid or an apparently solid mass that behaves as a liquid over very large time scales.
In the U.S., the material is commonly referred to as asphalt.
Whether found in natural deposits or refined from petroleum, the substance is classed as a pitch.
The word derives from the ancient Greek ἄσφαλτος ásphaltos, which referred to natural bitumen or pitch.
The largest natural deposit of bitumen in the world, estimated to contain 10 million tons, is the Pitch Lake of southwest Trinidad.
70% of annual bitumen production destined for road construction, its primary use.
In this application bitumen is used to bind aggregate particles like gravel and forms a substance referred to as asphalt concrete, which is colloquially termed asphalt.
Its other main uses lie in bituminous waterproofing products, such as roofing felt and roof sealant.
In material sciences and engineering the terms "asphalt" and "bitumen" are often used interchangeably and refer both to natural and manufactured forms of the substance, although there is regional variation as to which term is most common.
Worldwide, geologists tend to favor the term "bitumen" for the naturally occurring material.
For the manufactured material, which is a refined residue from the distillation process of selected crude oils, "bitumen" is the prevalent term in much of the world; however, in American English, "asphalt" is more commonly used.
To help avoid confusion, the phrases "liquid asphalt", "asphalt binder", or "asphalt cement" are used in the U.S.
Colloquially, various forms of asphalt are sometimes referred to as "tar", as in the name of the La Brea Tar Pits.
Naturally occurring bitumen is sometimes specified by the term "crude bitumen".
Its viscosity is similar to that of cold molasses while the material obtained from the fractional distillation of crude oil boiling at is sometimes referred to as "refined bitumen".
The Canadian province of Alberta has most of the world's reserves of natural bitumen in the Athabasca oil sands, which cover , an area larger than England.
Terminology Etymology The Latin word traces to the Proto-Indo-European root *gʷet- "pitch"; see that link for other cognates.
The expression "bitumen" originated in the Sanskrit, where we find the words "jatu", meaning "pitch", and "jatu-krit", meaning "pitch creating", "pitch producing" (referring to coniferous or resinous trees).
The Latin equivalent is claimed by some to be originally "gwitu-men" (pertaining to pitch), and by others, "pixtumens" (exuding or bubbling pitch), which was subsequently shortened to "bitumen", thence passing via French into English.
From the same root is derived the Anglo Saxon word "cwidu" (Mastix), the German word "Kitt" (cement or mastic) and the old Norse word "kvada".
The word "ašphalt" is claimed to have been d
The American National Standards Institute (ANSI ) is a private nonprofit organization that oversees the development of voluntary consensus standards for products, services, processes, systems, and personnel in the United States.
The organization also coordinates U.S.
standards with international standards so that American products can be used worldwide.
ANSI accredits standards that are developed by representatives of other standards organizations, government agencies, consumer groups, companies, and others.
These standards ensure that the characteristics and performance of products are consistent, that people use the same definitions and terms, and that products are tested the same way.
ANSI also accredits organizations that carry out product or personnel certification in accordance with requirements defined in international standards.
The organization's headquarters are in Washington, D.C.
The ANSI annual operating budget is funded by the sale of publications, membership dues and fees, accreditation services, fee-based programs, and international standards programs.
Many ANSI regulations are incorporated by reference into United States federal statutes (i.e.
by OSHA regulations referring to individual ANSI specifications).
ANSI does not make these standards publicly available, and charges money for access to these documents; it further claims that it is copyright infringement for them to be provided to the public by others free of charge.
These assertions have been the subject of criticism and litigation.
History ANSI was most likely formed in 1918, when five engineering societies and three government agencies founded the American Engineering Standards Committee (AESC).
In 1928, the AESC became the American Standards Association (ASA).
In 1966, the ASA was reorganized and became United States of America Standards Institute (USASI).
The present name was adopted in 1969.
Prior to 1918, these five founding engineering societies: American Institute of Electrical Engineers (AIEE, now IEEE) American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) American Institute of Mining Engineers (AIME, now American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical, and Petroleum Engineers) American Society for Testing and Materials (now ASTM International) had been members of the United Engineering Society (UES).
At the behest of the AIEE, they invited the U.S.
According to Adam Stanton, the first permanent secretary and head of staff in 1919, AESC started as an ambitious program and little else.
Staff for the first year consisted of one executive, Clifford B.
LePage, who was on loan from a founding member, ASME.
An annual budget of $7,500 was provided by the founding bodies.
In 1931, the organization (renamed A
Apollo 11 (July 16–24, 1969) was the American spaceflight that first landed humans on the Moon.
Commander Neil Armstrong and Lunar Module Pilot Buzz Aldrin landed the Apollo Lunar Module Eagle on July 20, 1969, at 20:17 UTC, and Armstrong became the first person to step onto the Moon's surface six hours and 39 minutes later, on July 21 at 02:56 UTC.
Aldrin joined him 19 minutes later, and they spent about two and a quarter hours together exploring the site they had named Tranquility Base upon landing.
Armstrong and Aldrin collected of lunar material to bring back to Earth as pilot Michael Collins flew the Command Module Columbia in lunar orbit, and were on the Moon's surface for 21 hours, 36 minutes before lifting off to rejoin Columbia.
Apollo 11 was launched by a Saturn V rocket from Kennedy Space Center on Merritt Island, Florida, on July 16 at 13:32 UTC, and it was the fifth crewed mission of NASA's Apollo program.
The Apollo spacecraft had three parts: a command module (CM) with a cabin for the three astronauts, the only part that returned to Earth; a service module (SM), which supported the command module with propulsion, electrical power, oxygen, and water; and a lunar module (LM) that had two stages—a descent stage for landing on the Moon and an ascent stage to place the astronauts back into lunar orbit.
After being sent to the Moon by the Saturn V's third stage, the astronauts separated the spacecraft from it and traveled for three days until they entered lunar orbit.
Armstrong and Aldrin then moved into Eagle and landed in the Sea of Tranquility on July 20.
The astronauts used Eagles ascent stage to lift off from the lunar surface and rejoin Collins in the command module.
They jettisoned Eagle before they performed the maneuvers that propelled Columbia out of the last of its 30 lunar orbits onto a trajectory back to Earth.
Armstrong's first step onto the lunar surface was broadcast on live TV to a worldwide audience.
He described the event as "one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind." Apollo 11 effectively proved U.S.
victory in the Space Race to demonstrate spaceflight superiority, by fulfilling a national goal proposed in 1961 by President John F.
On October 4, 1957, the Soviet Union launched Sputnik 1, the first artificial satellite.
This surprise success fired fears and imaginations around the world.
It demonstrated that the Soviet Union had the capability to deliver nuclear weapons over intercontinental distances, and challenged American claims of military, economic, and technological superiority.
This precipitated the Sputnik crisis, and triggered the Space Rac
Apollo 8 (December 21–27, 1968) was the first crewed spacecraft to leave low Earth orbit and the first human spaceflight to reach the Moon.
The crew orbited the Moon ten times without landing, and then departed safely back to Earth.
These three astronauts—Frank Borman, James Lovell, and William Anders—were the first humans to witness and photograph the far side of the Moon and an Earthrise.
Apollo 8 launched on December 21, 1968, and was the second crewed spaceflight mission flown in the United States Apollo space program after Apollo7, which stayed in Earth orbit.
Apollo8 was the third flight and the first crewed launch of the Saturn V rocket, and was the first human spaceflight from the Kennedy Space Center, located adjacent to Cape Kennedy Air Force Station in Florida.
Originally planned as the second crewed Apollo Lunar Module and command module test, to be flown in an elliptical medium Earth orbit in early 1969, the mission profile was changed in August 1968 to a more ambitious command-module-only lunar orbital flight to be flown in December, as the lunar module was not yet ready to make its first flight.
Astronaut Jim McDivitt's crew, who were training to fly the first lunar module flight in low Earth orbit, became the crew for the Apollo9 mission, and Borman's crew were moved to the Apollo8 mission.
This left Borman's crew with two to three months' less training and preparation time than originally planned, and replaced the planned lunar module training with translunar navigation training.
Apollo 8 took 68 hours to travel the distance to the Moon.
The crew orbited the Moon ten times over the course of twenty hours, during which they made a Christmas Eve television broadcast in which they read the first ten verses from the Book of Genesis.
At the time, the broadcast was the most watched TV program ever.
Apollo8's successful mission paved the way for Apollo 10 and, with Apollo11 in July 1969, the fulfillment of U.S.
Kennedy's goal of landing a man on the Moon before the end of the decade.
The crew members were named Time magazine's "Men of the Year" for 1968 upon their return.
It is the last Apollo mission for which all three crew members are still living.
On October 4, 1957, the Soviet Union launched Sputnik 1, the first artificial satellite.
This unexpected success stoked fears and imaginations around the world.
It not only demonstrated that the Soviet Union had the capability to deliver nuclear weapons over intercontinental distances, it challenged American claims of military, economic, and technological superiority.
The launch precipitated the Sputnik crisis and triggered the Space Race.
Kennedy believed that not only was it in the
An astronaut (from the Ancient Greek (), meaning 'star', and (), meaning 'sailor') is a person trained, equipped, and deployed by a human spaceflight program to serve as a commander or crew member aboard a spacecraft.
Although generally reserved for professional space travelers, the term is sometimes applied to anyone who travels into space, including scientists, politicians, journalists, and tourists.
"Astronaut" technically applies to all human space travelers regardless of nationality.
However, astronauts fielded by Russia or the Soviet Union are typically known instead as cosmonauts (from the Russian "kosmos" (космос), meaning "space", also borrowed from Greek ).
Comparatively recent developments in crewed spaceflight made by China have led to the rise of the term taikonaut (from the Mandarin "tàikōng" (), meaning "space"), although its use is somewhat informal and its origin is unclear.
In China, the People's Liberation Army Astronaut Corps astronauts and their foreign counterparts are all officially called hángtiānyuán (, meaning "heaven navigator" or literally "heaven-sailing staff").
Since 1961, 600 astronauts have flown in space.
Until 2002, astronauts were sponsored and trained exclusively by governments, either by the military or by civilian space agencies.
With the suborbital flight of the privately funded SpaceShipOne in 2004, a new category of astronaut was created: the commercial astronaut.
Definition The criteria for what constitutes human spaceflight vary, with some focus on the point where the atmosphere becomes so thin that centrifugal force, rather than aerodynamic force, carries a significant portion of the weight of the flight object.
The Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (FAI) Sporting Code for astronautics recognizes only flights that exceed the Kármán line, at an altitude of .
, 552 people from 36 countries have reached or more in altitude, of whom 549 reached low Earth orbit or beyond.
Of these, 24 people have traveled beyond low Earth orbit, either to lunar orbit, the lunar surface, or, in one case, a loop around the Moon.
Three of the 24—Jim Lovell, John Young and Eugene Cernan—did so twice.
definition, 558 people qualify as having reached space, above altitude.
Of eight X-15 pilots who exceeded in altitude, only one, Joseph A.
Walker, exceeded 100 kilometers (about 62.1 miles) and he did it two times, becoming the first person in space twice.
Space travelers have spent over 41,790 man-days (114.5 man-years) in space, including over 100 astronaut-days of spacewalks.
, the man with the longest cumulative time in space is Gennady Padalka, who has spent 879 days in space.
Whitson holds the record for the most time in space by a woman, at 675 days.
Terminology In 1959, when both the United States and Soviet Union were planning, but had yet to lau
The essay suggests that the impoverished Irish might ease their economic troubles by selling their children as food to rich gentlemen and ladies.
In English writing, the phrase "a modest proposal" is now conventionally an allusion to this style of straight-faced satire.
Synopsis Swift's essay is widely held to be one of the greatest examples of sustained irony in the history of the English language.
He uses methods of argument throughout his essay which lampoon the then-influential William Petty and the social engineering popular among followers of Francis Bacon.
These lampoons include appealing to the authority of "a very knowing American of my acquaintance in London" and "the famous Psalmanazar, a native of the island Formosa" (who had already confessed to not being from Formosa in 1706).
In the tradition of Roman satire, Swift introduces the reforms he is actually suggesting by paralipsis: Population solutions George Wittkowsky argued that Swift's main target in A Modest Proposal was not the conditions in Ireland, but rather the can-do spirit of the times that led people to devise a number of illogical schemes that would purportedly solve social and economic ills.
A memorable example of these sorts of schemes "involved the idea of running the poor through a joint-stock company".
A Modest Proposal also targets the calculating way people perceived the poor in designing their projects.
The pamphlet targets reformers who "regard people as commodities".
In the piece, Swift adopts the "technique of a political arithmetician" to show the utter ridiculousness of trying to prove any proposal with dispassion
The alkali metals consist of the chemical elements lithium (Li), sodium (Na), potassium (K), rubidium (Rb), caesium (Cs), and francium (Fr).
Together with hydrogen they constitute group 1, which lies in the s-block of the periodic table.
All alkali metals have their outermost electron in an s-orbital: this shared electron configuration results in their having very similar characteristic properties.
Indeed, the alkali metals provide the best example of group trends in properties in the periodic table, with elements exhibiting well-characterised homologous behaviour.
This family of elements is also known as the lithium family after its leading element.
The alkali metals are all shiny, soft, highly reactive metals at standard temperature and pressure and readily lose their outermost electron to form cations with charge +1.
They can all be cut easily with a knife due to their softness, exposing a shiny surface that tarnishes rapidly in air due to oxidation by atmospheric moisture and oxygen (and in the case of lithium, nitrogen).
Because of their high reactivity, they must be stored under oil to prevent reaction with air, and are found naturally only in salts and never as the free elements.
Caesium, the fifth alkali metal, is the most reactive of all the metals.
All the alkali metals react with water, with the heavier alkali metals reacting more vigorously than the lighter ones.
All of the discovered alkali metals occur in nature as their compounds: in order of abundance, sodium is the most abundant, followed by potassium, lithium, rubidium, caesium, and finally francium, which is very rare due to its extremely high radioactivity; francium occurs only in minute traces in nature as an intermediate step in some obscure side branches of the natural decay chains.
Experiments have been conducted to attempt the synthesis of element 119, which is likely to be the next member of the group; none were successful.
However, ununennium may not be an alkali metal due to relativistic effects, which are predicted to have a large influence on the chemical properties of superheavy elements; even if it does turn out to be an alkali metal, it is predicted to have some differences in physical and chemical properties from its lighter homologues.
Most alkali metals have many different applications.
One of the best-known applications of the pure elements is the use of rubidium and caesium in atomic clocks, of which caesium atomic clocks form the basis of the second.
A common application of the compounds of sodium is the sodium-vapour lamp, which emits light very efficiently.
Table salt, or sodium chloride, has been used since antiquity.
Lithium finds use as a psychiatric medication and as an anode in lithium batteries.
Sodium, potassium and lithium are essential elements, having major biological roles as electrolytes, and although the other alkali metals are not essential, they also have various effects on the body, both beneficial and harmful.
An alphabet is a standardized set of basic written graphemes (called letters) representing phonemes, units of sounds that distinguish words, of certain spoken languages.
Not all writing systems represent language in this way; in a syllabary, each character represents a syllable, and logographic systems use characters to represent words, morphemes, or other semantic units.
The Egyptians have created the first alphabet in a technical sense.
The short uniliteral signs are used to write pronunciation guides for logograms, or a character that represents a word, or morpheme, and later on, being used to write foreign words.
The first fully phonemic script, the Proto-Sinaitic script, which developed into the Phoenician alphabet, is considered to be the first alphabet and is the ancestor of most modern alphabets, abjads, and abugidas, including Arabic, Cyrillic, Greek, Hebrew, Latin, and possibly Brahmic.
Daniels distinguishes an abugida, a set of graphemes that represent consonantal base letters that diacritics modify to represent vowels, like in Devanagari and other South Asian scripts, an abjad, in which letters predominantly or exclusively represent consonants such as the original Phoenician, Hebrew or Arabic, and an alphabet, a set of graphemes that represent both consonants and vowels.
In this narrow sense of the word, the first true alphabet was the Greek alphabet, which was based on the earlier Phoenician abjad.
Alphabets are usually associated with a standard ordering of letters.
This makes them useful for purposes of collation, which allows words to be sorted in a specific order, commonly known as the alphabetical order.
It also means that their letters can be used as an alternative method of "numbering" ordered items, in such contexts as numbered lists and number placements.
There are also names for letters in some languages.
This is known as acrophony; It is present in some modern scripts, such as Greek, and many Semitic scripts, such as Arabic, Hebrew, and Syriac.
It was used in some ancient alphabets, such as in Phoenician.
However, this system is not present in all languages, such as the Latin alphabet, which adds a vowel after a character for each letter.
Some systems also used to have this system but later on abandoned it for a system similar to Latin, such as Cyrillic.
Etymology The English word alphabet came into Middle English from the Late Latin word , which in turn originated in the Greek, ἀλφάβητος (alphábētos); it was made from the first two letters of the Greek alphabet, alpha (α) and beta (β).
The names for the Greek letters, in turn, came from the first two letters of the Phoenician alphabet: aleph, the word f
The atomic number or nuclear charge number (symbol Z) of a chemical element is the charge number of an atomic nucleus.
For ordinary nuclei composed of protons and neutrons, this is equal to the proton number (np) or the number of protons found in the nucleus of every atom of that element.
The atomic number can be used to uniquely identify ordinary chemical elements.
In an ordinary uncharged atom, the atomic number is also equal to the number of electrons.
For an ordinary atom which contains protons, neutrons and electrons, the sum of the atomic number Z and the neutron number N gives the atom's atomic mass number A.
Atoms with the same atomic number but different neutron numbers, and hence different mass numbers, are known as isotopes.
A little more than three-quarters of naturally occurring elements exist as a mixture of isotopes (see monoisotopic elements), and the average isotopic mass of an isotopic mixture for an element (called the relative atomic mass) in a defined environment on Earth determines the element's standard atomic weight.
Only after 1915, with the suggestion and evidence that this Z number was also the nuclear charge and a physical characteristic of atoms, did the word (and its English equivalent atomic number) come into common use in this context.
The rules above do not always apply to exotic atoms which contain short-lived elementary particles other than protons, neutrons and electrons.
Dmitri Mendeleev claimed that he arranged his first periodic tables (first published on March 6, 1869) in order of atomic weight ("Atomgewicht").
However, in consideration of the elements' observed chemical properties, he changed the order slightly and placed tellurium (atomic weight 127.6) ahead of iodine (atomic weight 126.9).
This placement is consistent with the modern practice of ordering the elements by proton number, Z, but that number was not known or suspected at the time.
Anatomy is a branch of natural science that deals with the structural organization of living things.
It is an old science, having its beginnings in prehistoric times.
Anatomy and physiology, which study the structure and function of organisms and their parts respectively, make a natural pair of related disciplines, and are often studied together.
Human anatomy is one of the essential basic sciences that are applied in medicine.
Anatomy is a complex and dynamic field that is constantly evolving as new discoveries are made.
In recent years, there has been a significant increase in the use of advanced imaging techniques, such as MRI and CT scans, which allow for more detailed and accurate visualizations of the body's structures.
The discipline of anatomy is divided into macroscopic and microscopic parts.
Macroscopic anatomy, or gross anatomy, is the examination of an animal's body parts using unaided eyesight.
Gross anatomy also includes the branch of superficial anatomy.
Microscopic anatomy involves the use of optical instruments in the study of the tissues of various structures, known as histology, and also in the study of cells.
The history of anatomy is characterized by a progressive understanding of the functions of the organs and structures of the human body.
Etymology and definition Derived from the Greek anatomē "dissection" (from anatémnō "I cut up, cut open" from ἀνά aná "up", and τέμνω témnō "I cut"), anatomy is the scientific study of the structure of organisms including their systems, organs and tissues.
It includes the appearance and position of the various parts, the materials from which they are composed, and their relationships with other parts.
For example, an anatomist is concerned with the shape, size, position, structure, blood supply and innervation of an organ such as the liver; while a physiologist is interested in the production of bile, the role of the liver in nutrition and the regulation of bodily functions.
The discipline of anatomy can be subdivided into a number of branches, including gross or macroscopic anatomy and microscopic anatomy.
Gross anatomy is the study of structures large enough to be seen with the naked eye, and also includes superficial anatomy or surface anatomy, the study by sight
The opposite statement, denying the consequent, is called modus tollens and is a valid form of argument.
The name affirming the consequent derives from using the consequent, Q, of , to conclude the antecedent P.
This fallacy can be summarized formally as or, alternatively, .
The root cause of such a logical error is sometimes failure to realize that just because P is a possible condition for Q, P may not be the only condition for Q, i.e.
Q may follow from another condition as well.
Affirming the consequent can also result from overgeneralizing the experience of many statements having true converses.
If P and Q are "equivalent" statements, i.e.
, it is possible to infer P under the condition Q.
For example, the statements "It is August 13, so it is my birthday" and "It is my birthday, so it is August 13" are equivalent and both true consequences of the statement "August 13 is my birthday" (an abbreviated form of ).
Of the possible forms of "mixed hypothetical syllogisms," two are valid and two are invalid.
Affirming the antecedent (modus ponens) and denying the consequent (modus tollens) are valid.
Affirming the consequent and denying the antecedent are invalid.
Additional examples Example 1 One way to demonstrate the invalidity of this argument form is with a counterexample with true premises but an obviously false conclusion.
For example: If someone lives in San Diego, then they live in California.
Therefore, Joe lives in San Diego.
There are many places to live in California other than San Diego; however, one can affirm with certainty that "if someone does not live in California" (non-Q), then "this person does not live in San Diego" (non-P).
This is the contrapositive of the first statement, and it must be true if and only if the original statement is true.
Example 2 Here is another useful, obviously fallacious example.
If an animal is a dog, then it has four legs.
Andrei Arsenyevich Tarkovsky (; 4 April 1932 – 29 December 1986) was a Russian film director and screenwriter.
Widely considered one of the greatest and most influential directors in cinema history, Tarkovsky's films explore spiritual and metaphysical themes, and are noted for their slow pacing and long takes, dreamlike visual imagery, and preoccupation with nature and memory.
Tarkovsky studied film at Moscow's VGIK under filmmaker Mikhail Romm, and subsequently directed his first five features in the Soviet Union: Ivan's Childhood (1962), Andrei Rublev (1966), Solaris (1972), Mirror (1975), and Stalker (1979).
A number of his films from this period are ranked among the best films ever made.
In 1986, he also published an influential book about cinema and art entitled Sculpting in Time.
He died later that year of cancer, a condition possibly caused by the toxic locations used in the filming of Stalker.
Three of his films—Andrei Rublev, Mirror, and Stalker—featured in Sight & Sound 2012 poll of the 100 greatest films of all time.
Andrei's paternal grandfather Aleksandr Karlovich Tarkovsky (in ) was a Polish nobleman who worked as a bank clerk.
His wife Maria Danilovna Rachkovskaya was a Romanian language teacher who arrived from Iași.
She was married to Ivan Ivanovich Vishnyakov, a native of the Kaluga Governorate who studied law at the Moscow State University and served as a judge in Kozelsk.
According to the family legend, Tarkovsky's ancestors on his father's side were princes from the Shamkhalate of Tarki, Dagestan, although his sister Marina Tarkovskaya who did a detailed researc
A common aspect of ambiguity is uncertainty.
It is thus an attribute of any idea or statement whose intended meaning cannot be definitively resolved, according to a rule or process with a finite number of steps.
Linguistic forms Lexical ambiguity is contrasted with semantic ambiguity.
The former represents a choice between a finite number of known and meaningful context-dependent interpretations.
The latter represents a choice between any number of possible interpretations, none of which may have a standard agreed-upon meaning.
This form of ambiguity is closely related to vagueness.
Ambiguity in human language is argued to reflect principles of efficient communication.
Languages that communicate efficiently will avoid sending information that is redundant with information provided in the context.
This can be shown mathematically to result in a system which is ambiguous when context is neglected.
In this way, ambiguity is viewed as a generally useful feature of a linguistic system.
Linguistic ambiguity can be a problem in law, because the interpretation of written documents and oral agreements is often of paramount importance.
Lexical ambiguity The lexical ambiguity of a word or phrase applies to it having more than one meaning in the language to which the word belongs.
"Meaning" here refers to whatever should be represented by a good dictionary.
One could say "I bought herbs from the apothecary".
This could mean one actually spoke to the apothecary (pharmacist) or went to the apothecary (pharmacy).
The context in which an ambiguous word is used often makes it clearer which of the meanings is intended.
If, for instance, someone says "I put $100 in the bank", most people would not think someone used a shovel to dig in the mud.
However, some linguistic contexts do not provide sufficient information to make a used word clearer.
Lexical ambiguity can be addressed by algorithmic methods that automatically associate the appropriate meaning with a word in context, a task referred to as word-sense disambiguation.
The use of multi-defined words requires the author or speaker to clarify their context, and sometimes elaborate on their specific intended meaning (in which case, a less ambiguous term should have been used).
The goal of clear concise communication is that the receiver(s) have no misunde
Abel is a Biblical figure in the Book of Genesis within Abrahamic religions.
He was the younger brother of Cain, and the younger son of Adam and Eve, the first couple in Biblical history.
He was a shepherd who offered his firstborn flock up to God as an offering.
God accepted his offering but not his brother's.
Cain then killed Abel out of jealousy.
According to Genesis, this was the first murder in the history of mankind.
Life and death Interpretations Jewish and Christian interpretations According to the narrative in Genesis, Abel ( Hébel, in pausa Hā́ḇel; Hábel; , Hābēl) is Eve's second son.
His name in Hebrew is composed of the same three consonants as a root meaning "breath".
Julius Wellhausen has proposed that the name is independent of the root.
In Christianity, comparisons are sometimes made between the death of Abel and that of Jesus, the former thus seen as being the first martyr.
In Jesus speaks of Abel as "righteous", and the Epistle to the Hebrews states that "The blood of sprinkling ...
[speaks] better things than that of Abel" ().
The blood of Jesus is interpreted as bringing mercy; but that of Abel as demanding vengeance (hence the curse and mark).
Abel is invoked in the litany for the dying in the Roman Catholic Church, and his sacrifice is mentioned in the Canon of the Mass along with those of Abraham and Melchizedek.
The Alexandrian Rite commemorates him with a feast day on December 28.
According to the Coptic Book of Adam and Eve (at 2:1–15), and the Syriac Cave of Treasures, Abel's body, after many days of mourning, was placed in the Cave of Treasures, before which Adam and Eve, and descendants, offered their prayers.
In addition, the Sethite line of the Generations of Adam swear by Abel's blood to segregate themselves from the unrighteous.
In the Book of Enoch (22:7), regarded by most Christian and Jewish traditions as extra-biblical, the soul of Abel is described as having been appointed as the chief of martyrs, crying for vengeance, for the destruction of the seed of Cain.
A similar view is later shown in the Testament of Abraham (A:13 / B:11), where Abel has been raised to the position as the judge of the souls.
In Bereshit Rabbah (22:2), a discussion of Gen.
has Rabbi Yehoshua ben Korcha mentioning that Cain was born with a twin sister, and Abel with two twin sisters.
This is based on the principle that the otherwise superfluous accusative article "et" always conveys some additional teaching (Pesachim 22b).
The "et"'s are parsed slightly differently in Yebamot 62a where the two "et"'s in Gen.
4:2 indicate Cain and his sister, and Abel and his (one) sister.
Sethian Gnostic interpretation In the Apocryphon of John, a work belonging to Sethian Gnosticism, Abel is the offspring of Yaldaboath and Eve, who is placed over the elements of water and earth as Elohim, but was only given hi
The aardvark ( ; Orycteropus afer) is a medium-sized, burrowing, nocturnal mammal native to Africa.
It is the only living species of the order Tubulidentata, although other prehistoric species and genera of Tubulidentata are known.
Unlike most other insectivores, it has a long snout, similar to that of a pig, which is used to sniff out food.
The aardvark is found over much of the southern two-thirds of the African continent, avoiding areas that are mainly rocky.
A nocturnal feeder, it subsists on ants and termites, which it will dig out of their hills using its sharp claws and powerful legs.
It also digs to create burrows in which to live and rear its young.
The animal is listed as "least concern" by the IUCN, although its numbers are decreasing.
Aardvarks are afrotheres, a clade which also includes elephants, manatees, and hyraxes.
Name and taxonomy Name The aardvark is sometimes colloquially called the "African ant bear", "anteater" (not to be confused with the South American anteaters), or the "Cape anteater" after the Cape of Good Hope.
The name "aardvark" is Afrikaans (), comes from earlier Afrikaans and means "earth pig" or "ground pig" (aarde: "earth", vark: "pig", or "young pig"/child), because of its burrowing habits.
The name Orycteropus means "burrowing foot", and the name afer refers to Africa.
The name of the aardvark's order, Tubulidentata, comes from the tubule-style teeth.
Taxonomy The aardvark is not closely related to the pig; rather, it is the sole extant representative of the obscure mammalian order Tubulidentata, in which it is usually considered to form one variable species of the genus Orycteropus, the sole surviving genus in the family Orycteropodidae.
The aardvark is not closely related to the South American anteater, despite sharing some characteristics and a superficial resemblance.
The similarities are the outcome of convergent evolution.
The closest living relatives of the aardvark are the elephant shrews, tenrecidae, and golden moles.
Along with sirenians, hyraxes, elephants, and their extinct relatives, these animals form the superorder Afrotheria.
Studies of the brain have shown the similarities with Condylarthra.
Evolutionary history Based on fossils, Bryan Patterson has concluded that early relatives of the aardvark appeared in Africa around the end of the Paleocene.
The ptolemaiidans, a mysterious clade of mammals with uncertain affinities, may actually be stem-aardvarks, either as a sister clade to Tubulidentata or as a grade leading to true tubulidentates.
The first unambiguous tubulidentate was probably Myorycteropus africanus from Kenyan Miocene deposits.
The earliest example from the genus Orycteropus was Orycteropus mauritanicus, found in Algeria in deposits from the middle Miocene, with an equally old version found in Kenya.
Fossils from the aardvark have been dated to 5 million years, and have been located throughout Europe and the Near East.
The mysterious Pleistocene Plesiorycteropus from M
The aardwolf (Proteles cristatus) is an insectivorous species of hyena, native to East and Southern Africa.
Its name means "earth-wolf" in Afrikaans and Dutch.
It is also called the maanhaar-jackal (Afrikaans for "mane-jackal"), termite-eating hyena and civet hyena, based on its habit of secreting substances from its anal gland, a characteristic shared with the African civet.
Unlike many of its relatives in the order Carnivora, the aardwolf does not hunt large animals.
It eats insects and their larvae, mainly termites; one aardwolf can lap up as many as 300,000 termites during a single night using its long, sticky tongue.
The aardwolf's tongue has adapted to be tough enough to withstand the strong bite of termites.
The aardwolf lives in the shrublands of eastern and southern Africa – open lands covered with stunted trees and shrubs.
It is nocturnal, resting in burrows during the day and emerging at night to seek food.
Taxonomy The aardwolf is generally classified with the hyena family Hyaenidae, though it was formerly placed in its own family Protelidae.
Recent studies have suggested that the aardwolf probably diverged from other hyaenids early on; how early is still unclear, as the fossil record and genetic studies disagree by 10 million years.
The aardwolf is the only surviving species in the subfamily Protelinae.
There is disagreement as to whether the species is monotypic, or can be divided into subspecies P.
cristatus of Southern Africa and P.
septentrionalis of East Africa.
A 2006 molecular analysis indicates that it is phylogenetically the most basal of the four extant hyaenidae species.
Etymology The generic name proteles comes from two words both of Greek origin, protos and teleos which combined means "complete in front" based on the fact that they have five toes on their front feet and four on the rear.
The specific name, cristatus, comes from Latin and means "provided with a comb", relating to their mane.
Description The aardwolf resembles a very thin striped hyena, but with a more slender muzzle, black vertical stripes on a coat of yellowish fur, and a long, distinct mane down the midline of the neck and back.
It also has one or two diagonal stripes down the fore- and hind-quarters, along with several stripes on its legs.
The mane is raised during confrontations to make the aardwolf appear larger.
It is missing the throat spot that others in the family have.
Its lower leg (from the knee down) is all black, and its tail is bushy with a black tip.
The aardwolf is about long, excluding its bushy tail, which is about long, and stands about tall at the shoulders.
An adult aardwolf weighs approximately , sometimes reaching .
The aardwolves in the south of the continent tend to be smaller (about ) than the eastern version (around ).
This makes the aardwolf, the smallest extant member of the Hyaenid
Adobe ( ; ) is a building material made from earth and organic materials.
Most adobe buildings are similar in appearance to cob and rammed earth buildings.
Adobe is among the earliest building materials, and is used throughout the world.
Adobe architecture has been dated to before 5,100 B.C.
They can be subsequently assembled, with the application of adobe mud to bond the individual bricks into a structure.
There is no standard size, with substantial variations over the years and in different regions.
In some areas a popular size measured weighing about ; in other contexts the size is weighing about .
The maximum sizes can reach up to ; above this weight it becomes difficult to move the pieces, and it is preferred to ram the mud in situ, resulting in a different typology known as rammed earth.
Strength In dry climates, adobe structures are extremely durable, and account for some of the oldest existing buildings in the world.
Adobe buildings offer significant advantages due to their greater thermal mass, but they are known to be particularly susceptible to earthquake damage if they are not reinforced.
Cases where adobe structures were widely damaged during earthquakes include the 1976 Guatemala earthquake, the 2003 Bam earthquake, and the 2010 Chile earthquake.
Distribution Buildings made of sun-dried earth are common throughout the world (Middle East, Western Asia, North Africa, West Africa, South America, Southwestern North America, Southwestern and Eastern Europe.).
Adobe had been in use by indigenous peoples of the Americas in the Southwestern United States, Mesoamerica, and the Andes for several thousand years.
Etymology The word adobe has existed for around 4,000 years with relatively little change in either pronunciation or meaning.
The word can be traced from the Middle Egyptian () word ḏbt "mud brick" (with vowels unwritten).
Middle Egyptian evolved into Late Egyptian and finally to Coptic (), where it appeared as ⲧⲱⲃⲉ tōbə.
This was adopted into Arabic as aṭ-ṭawbu or aṭ-ṭūbu, with the definite article al- attached to the root tuba.
This was assimilated into the Old Spanish language as adobe , probably via Mozarabic.
Adventures are often undertaken to create psychological arousal or in order to achieve a greater goal, such as the pursuit of knowledge that can only be obtained by such activities.
Motivation Adventurous experiences create psychological arousal, which can be interpreted as negative (e.g.
For some people, adventure becomes a major pursuit in and of itself.
According to adventurer André Malraux, in his Man's Fate (1933), "If a man is not ready to risk his life, where is his dignity?" Similarly, Helen Keller stated that "Life is either a daring adventure or nothing." Outdoor adventurous activities are typically undertaken for the purposes of recreation or excitement: examples are adventure racing and adventure tourism.
Adventurous activities can also lead to gains in knowledge, such as those undertaken by explorers and pioneersthe British adventurer Jason Lewis, for example, uses adventures to draw global sustainability lessons from living within finite environmental constraints on expeditions to share with schoolchildren.
Adventure education intentionally uses challenging experiences for learning.
Mythology and fiction Some of the oldest and most widespread stories in the world are stories of adventure, such as Homer's Odyssey.
The knight errant was the form the "adventure seeker" character took in the Late Middle Ages.
Outdoors Adventure books may have the theme of the hero or main character going to face the wilderness or Mother Nature.
Examples include books such as Hatchet or My Side of the Mountain.
These books are less about "questing", such as in mythology or other adventure novels, but more about surviving on their own, living off the land, gaining new experiences, and becoming closer to the natural world.
Video games In video game culture, an adventure game is a video game in which the player assumes the role of a protagonist in an interactive story driven by exploration and puzzle solving.
The genre's focus on story allows it to draw heavily from other narrative-based media, literature and film, encompassing a wide variety of
Asia ( , ) is the largest continent in the world by both land area and population.
It covers an area of more than 44 million square kilometers, about 30% of Earth's total land area and 8% of Earth's total surface area.
The continent, which has long been home to the majority of the human population, was the site of many of the first civilizations.
Its 4.7 billion people constitute roughly 60% of the world's population, having more people than all other continents combined.
Asia shares the landmass of Eurasia with Europe, and of Afro-Eurasia with both Europe and Africa.
The border of Asia with Europe is a historical and cultural construct, as there is no clear physical and geographical separation between them.
The division of Eurasia into two continents reflects East–West cultural, linguistic, and ethnic differences, some of which vary on a spectrum rather than with a sharp dividing line.
China and India alternated in being the largest economies in the world from 1 to 1,800 CE.
China was a major economic power and attracted many to the east, and for many the legendary wealth and prosperity of the ancient culture of India personified Asia, attracting European commerce, exploration and colonialism.
The accidental discovery of a trans-Atlantic route from Europe to America by Columbus while in search for a route to India demonstrates this deep fascination.
The Silk Road became the main east–west trading route in the Asian hinterlands while the Straits of Malacca stood as a major sea route.
Asia was the birthplace of most of the world's mainstream religions including Hinduism, Zoroastrianism, Judaism, Jainism, Buddhism, Confucianism, Taoism, Christianity, Islam, Sikhism, as well as many other religions.
Asia varies greatly across and within its regions with regard to ethnic groups, cultures, environments, economics, historical ties and government systems.
It also has a mix of many different climates ranging from the equatorial south via the hot desert in the Middle East, temperate areas in the east and the continental centre to vast subarctic and polar areas in Siberia.
Definition and boundaries Asia–Africa boundary The
It measures long from its northwestern to its southeastern end and across at its widest point.
Together with Bonaire and Curaçao, Aruba forms a group referred to as the ABC islands.
Collectively, these and the other three Dutch substantial islands in the Caribbean are often called the Dutch Caribbean, of which Aruba has about one-third of the population.
Aruba has no administrative subdivisions, but, for census purposes, is divided into eight regions.
Unlike much of the Caribbean region, Aruba has a dry climate and an arid, cactus-strewn landscape.
Its area is and it is quite densely populated, with 108,166 inhabitants per the 2020 census.
Etymology The name Aruba most likely came from the Caquetío Oruba which means "Well situated island", seeing as it was the Caquetío who were present on the island when it was first set foot upon by Alonso de Ojeda.
Between 1529 and the signing of the Treaty of Westphalia (1648), the name "Isla de Oruba" was used for the island by the Spanish.
After the signing, the island was ceded to the Dutch and gradually its name changed to Aruba.
There were many different names for Aruba used by other Amerindian groups, all of which could have contributed to the present-day name Aruba.
Another Caquetío name for the island was Oibubia which means "Guided island".
The Taino name for the island was Arubeira.
The Kalinago also had two names for the island Ora Oubao which means "Shell island" and Oirubae which means "Companion of Curaçao".
However, the Spanish declared these islands islas inútiles, meaning "useless islands", due to their lack of mineral wealth.
History Pre-ceramic age In Aruba's prehistoric era, there were distinct periods: the Archaic or Pre-Ceramic and the Neo-Indian (Ceramic) period.
The Archaic occupation of Aruba continued well into the first millennium AD, which is relatively late in compared to other parts of the insular Caribbean.
The archaic lifestyle revolved around a food economy based on fishing, hunting, and gathering, with a s
The Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union was an agreement among the 13 states of the United States, formerly the Thirteen Colonies, that served as the nation's first frame of government.
It was debated by the Second Continental Congress at Independence Hall in Philadelphia between July 1776 and November 1777, and finalized by the Congress on November 15, 1777.
It came into force on March 1, 1781, after being ratified by all 13 colonial states.
A guiding principle of the Articles was the establishment and preservation of the independence and sovereignty of the states.
The document provided clearly written rules for how the states' league of friendship, known as the Perpetual Union, would be organized.
Little changed procedurally once the Articles of Confederation went into effect, as ratification did little more than constitutionalize what the Continental Congress had been doing.
That body was renamed the Congress of the Confederation; but most Americans continued to call it the Continental Congress, since its organization remained the same.
As the Confederation Congress attempted to govern the continually growing U.S.
states, its delegates discovered that the limitations placed upon the central government (such as in assembling delegates, raising funds, and regulating commerce) rendered it ineffective at doing so.
Their hope was to create a stronger government.
Initially, in September 1786, some states met to address interstate protectionist trade barriers between them.
Shortly thereafter, as more states became interested in meeting to revise the Articles, a meeting was set in Philadelphia on May 25, 1787.
This became the Constitutional Convention.
Delegates quickly agreed that the defects of the frame of government could not be remedied by altering the Articles, and so went beyond their mandate by replacing it with a new constitution.
On March 4, 1789, the government under the Articles was replaced with the federal government under the Constitution.
The new Constitution provided for a much stronger federal government by establishing a chief executive (the president), courts, and taxing powers.
Background and context The political push to increase cooperation among the then-loyal colonies began with the Albany Congress in 1754 and Benjamin Franklin's proposed Albany Plan, an inter-colonial collaboration to help solve mutual local problems.
Asia Minor is an alternative name for Anatolia, the westernmost protrusion of Asia, comprising the majority of the Republic of Turkey.
Asia Minor may also refer to: Asia Minor (album), an album by Jamaican-born jazz trumpeter Dizzy Reece "Asia Minor" (instrumental), a 1961 instrumental recording by Jimmy Wisner (operating under the name Kokomo) See also Asia Major (disambiguation)
It covers approximately 17% of Earth's surface and about 24% of its water surface area.
It is known to separate the "Old World" of Africa, Europe, and Asia from the "New World" of the Americas in the European perception of the World.
While the Norse were the first known humans to cross the Atlantic, it was the expedition of Christopher Columbus in 1492 that proved to be the most consequential.
211): (Greek: ; English: 'the Atlantic sea'; etym.
'Sea of Atlas') and in The Histories of Herodotus around 450 BC (Hdt.
1.202.4): (Greek: ; English: 'Sea of Atlas' or 'the Atlantic sea') where the name refers to "the sea beyond the pillars of Heracles" which is said to be part of the sea that surrounds all land.
In these uses, the name refers to Atlas, the Titan in Greek mythology, who supported the heavens and who later appeared as a frontispiece in medieval maps and also lent his name to modern atlases.
In contrast, the term "Atlantic" originally referred specifically to the Atlas Mountains in Morocco and the sea off the Strait of Gibraltar and the North Afr
Arthur Schopenhauer ( , ; 22 February 1788 – 21 September 1860) was a German philosopher.
He is best known for his 1818 work The World as Will and Representation (expanded in 1844), which characterizes the phenomenal world as the manifestation of a blind and irrational noumenal will.
Building on the transcendental idealism of Immanuel Kant (1724–1804), Schopenhauer developed an atheistic metaphysical and ethical system that rejected the contemporaneous ideas of German idealism.
His work has been described as an exemplary manifestation of philosophical pessimism.
Life Early life Arthur Schopenhauer was born on 22 February 1788, in Danzig (then part of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth; present-day Gdańsk, Poland) on Heiligegeistgasse (present day Św.
Ducha 47), the son of Johanna Schopenhauer (née Trosiener; 1766–1838) and Heinrich Floris Schopenhauer (1747–1805), both descendants of wealthy German patrician families.
His firm continued trading in Danzig where most of their extended families remained.
Adele, Arthur's only sibling, was born on 12 July 1797.
In 1797, Arthur was sent to Le Havre to live with the family of his father's business associate, Grégoire de Blésimaire.
He seemed to enjoy his two-year stay there, learning to speak French and fostering a life-long friendship with Jean Anthime Grégoire de Blésimaire.
As early as 1799, Arthur started playing the flute.
In 1803, he accompanied his parents on a European tour of Holland, Britain, France, Switzerland, Austria and Prussia.
Viewed as primarily a pleasure tour, Heinrich used the opportunity to visit some of his business associates abroad.
Heinrich offered Arthur a choice: he could stay at home and start preparations for university, or he could travel with them and continue his merchant education.
Arthur chose to travel with them.
He deeply regretted his choice later because the merchant training was very tedious.
He spent twelve weeks of the tour attending school in Wimbledon, where he was disillusioned by strict and intellectually shallow Anglican religiosity.
He continued to sharply criticize Anglican religiosity later in life despite his general Anglophilia.
He was also under pressure from his father, who became very critical
Angola has an exclave province, the province of Cabinda, that borders the Republic of the Congo and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Angola has been inhabited since the Paleolithic Age.
After a protracted anti-colonial struggle, Angola achieved independence in 1975 as a Marxist–Leninist one-party Republic.
The standard of living remains low for most Angolans; life expectancy is among the lowest in the world, while infant mortality is among the highest.
Since 2017, the government of João Lourenço has made fighting corruption its flagship, so much so that many individuals of the previous government are either jailed or awaiting trial.
Whilst this effort has been recognised by foreign diplomats to be legitimate, some skeptics see the actions as being politically motivated.
Angola is a member of the United Nations, OPEC, African Union, the Community of Portuguese Language Countries, and the Southern African Development Community.
, the Angolan population is estimated at 32.87 million.
Angola is multicultural and multiethnic.
According to 2014 census data, Angola had a population of 25,789,024 inhabitants in 2014.
Other numerically important groups include the closely interrelated Chokwe and Lunda, the Ganguela and Nyaneka-Khumbi (in both cases classification terms that stand for a variety of small groups), the Ovambo, the Herero, the Xindonga and scattered residual groups of San.
In addition, mixed race (European and African) people amount to about 30%, with (15%) population of whites, mainly ethnically Portuguese.
Currently, over 300,000 Angolans are white, 1 million Angolans are mixed race (black and white) and 50,000 Angolans are from China, which accounts for 1.35 million people.
In 1974, white Angolans made up a population of 350,000 people in an overall population of 6.3 million Angolans at that time.
The only reliable source on these numbers is Gerald Bender & Stanley Yoder, Whites in Angola on the Eve of Independence: The Politics of Numbers, Africa Today, 21 (4) 1974, pp.
Today, many Angolans who are not ethnic Portuguese can claim Portuguese nationality under Portuguese law.
Estimates on the overall population are given in O País Besides the Portuguese, significant numbers of people from other European and from diverse Latin American countries (especially Brazil) can be found.
From the 2000s, many Chinese have settled and started up small businesses, while at least as many have come as workers for large enterprises (construction or other).
Observers claim that the Chinese community in Angola might include as many as 300,000 persons at the end of 2010, but reliable statistics are not at this stage available.
Once this was over, a massive development cooperation in the field of health and education brought in numerous civil personnel from Cuba.
However, only a very small percentage of all these people has remained in Angola, either for personal reasons (intermarriage) or as professionals (e.g., medical doctors).
The largest religious denomination is Catholicism, to which adheres about half the population.
Roughly 26% are followers of traditional forms of Protestantism (Congregationals, Methodists, Baptista, Lutherans, Reformed), but over the last decades there has in addition been a growth of Pentecostal communities and African Initiated Churches.
The current political regime in Angola is presidentialism, in which the President of the Republic is also head of state and government; it is advised by a Council of Ministers, which together with the President form the national executive power.
Legislative power rests with the 220 parliamentarians elected to the National Assembly.
The President of the Republic, together with the parliament, appoints the majority of the members of the two highest bodies of the judiciary, that is, the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court.
The judiciary is still made up of the Court of Auditors and the Supreme Military Court.
The Angolan government is composed of three branches of government: executive, legislative and judicial.
For decades, political power has been concentrated in the presidency with the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola.
History Since the adoption of a new constitution in 2010, the politics of Angola takes place in a framework of a presidential republic, whereby the President of Angola is both head of state and head of government, and of a multi-party system.
Executive power is exercised by the government.
Legislative power is vested in the President, the government and parliament.
Angola changed from a one-party Marxist-Leninist system ruled by the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA), in place since independence in 1975, to a multiparty democracy based on a new constitution adopted in 1992.
That same year the first parliamentary and presidential elections were held.
The MPLA won an absolute majority in the parliamentary elections.
In the presidential elections, President José Eduardo dos Santos won the first round election with more than 49% of the vote to Jonas Savimbi's 40%.
A runoff election would have been necessary, but never took place.
To a certain degree the new democratic institutions worked, notably the National Assembly, with the active participation of UNITA's and the FNLA's elected MPs - while José Eduardo dos Santos continued to exercise his functions without democratic legitimation.
However the armed forces of the MPLA (now the official armed forces of the Angolan state) and of UNITA fought each other until the leader of UNITA, Jonas Savimbi, was killed in action in 2002.
From 2002 to 2010, the system as defined by the constitution of 1992 functioned in a relatively normal way.
The executive branch of the government was composed of the President, the Prime Minister and Council of Ministers.
The Council of Ministers, composed of all ministers and vice ministers, met regularly to discuss policy issues.
Governors of the 18 provinces were appointed by and served at the pleasure of the president.
The Constitutional Law of 1992 established the broad outlines of government structure and the rights and duties of citizens.
Despite extensive oil and gas resources, diamonds, hydroelectric potential, and rich agricultural land, Angola remains poor, and a third of the population relies on subsistence agriculture.
High international oil prices and rising oil production contributed to strong economic growth, although with high inequality, at that time.
With the end of the oil boom, from 2015 Angola entered into a period of economic contraction.
The Portuguese used Angola principally as a source for the thriving slave trade across the Atlantic; Luanda became the greatest slaving port in Africa.
After the Portuguese Empire abolished the slave trade in Angola in 1858, it began using concessional agreements, granting exclusive rights to a private company to exploit land, people, and all other resources within a given territory.
In Mozambique, this policy spawned a number of companies notorious for their exploitation of local labor.
But in Angola, only Diamang showed even moderate success.
At the same time, Portuguese began emigrating to Angola to establish farms and plantations (fazendas) to grow cash crops for export.
Grains, sugar, and rum were also produced for local consumption.
Legislation against foreign traders was implemented in the 1890s.
The territory's prosperity, however, continued to depend on plantations worked by labor "indentured" from the interior.
Transport in Angola comprises: Roads Railways There are three separate railway lines in Angola: Luanda Railway (CFL) (northern); Benguela Railway (CFB) (central), operated by the Lobito Atlantic Railway joint venture; Moçâmedes Railway (CFM) (southern); Reconstruction of these three lines began in 2005 and they are now all operational.
The Benguela Railway connects to the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Angola plans to build an oil refinery in Lobito in the coming years.
Ports and harbors The government plans to build a deep-water port at Barra do Dande, north of Luanda, in Bengo province near Caxito.
There are airstrips at Benguela, Cabinda, Huambo, Moçâmedes, and Catumbela.
The Angolan Armed Forces () or FAA is the military of Angola.
The FAA consist of the Angolan Army (), the Angolan Navy () and the National Air Force of Angola ().
Reported total manpower in 2021 was about 107,000.
The FAA is headed by the Chief of the General Staff António Egídio de Sousa Santos since 2018, who reports to the minister of National Defense, currently João Ernesto dos Santos.
History Roots The FAA succeeded to the previous People's Armed Forces for the Liberation of Angola (FAPLA) following the abortive Bicesse Accord with the Armed Forces of the Liberation of Angola (FALA), armed wing of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA).
As part of the peace agreement, troops from both armies were to be demilitarized and then integrated.
Later, consequences for FALA personnel in Luanda were harsh with FAPLA veterans persecuting their erstwhile opponents in certain areas and reports of vigilantism.
Founding The Angolan Armed Forces were created on 9 October 1991.
The institutionalization of the FAA was made in the Bicesse Accords, signed in 1991, between the Angolan Government and UNITA.
The principles that would govern the FAA were defined in a joint proposal presented on September 24, 1991 and approved on 9 October.
On 14 November 1991, Generals João Baptista de Matos and Abílio Kamalata Numa were appointed to the Superior Command of the Armed Forces.
The ceremony took place at the Hotel Presidente Luanda, and was presided over by the then-minister França Vandúnem.
Branches Army The Army (Exército) is the land component of the FAA.
It is organized in six military regions (Cabinda, Luanda, North, Center, East and South), with an infantry division being based in each one.
Distributed by the six military regions / infantry divisions, there are 25 motorized infantry brigades, one tank brigade and one engineering brigade.
The Army also includes an artillery regiment, the Military Artillery School, the Army Military Academy, an anti-aircraft defense group, a composite land artillery group, a military police regiment, a logistical transportation regiment and a field artillery brigade.
The Army further includes the Special Forces Brigade (including Commandos and Special Operations units), but this unit is under the direct command of the General Staff of the FAA.
Air Force The National Air Force of Angola (FANA, Força Aérea Nacional de Angola) is the air component of the FAA.
It is organized in six aviation regiments, each including several squadrons.
To each of the regiments correspond an air base.
Besides the aviation regiments, there is also a Pilot Training School.
The Air Force's personnel total about 8,000; its equipment includes transport aircraft and six Russian-manufactured Sukhoi Su-27 fighter aircraft.
In 1991, the Air Force/Air Defense Forces had 8,000 personnel a
The foreign relations of Angola are based on Angola's strong support of U.S.
foreign policy as the Angolan economy is dependent on U.S.
From 1975 to 1989, Angola was aligned with the Eastern bloc, in particular the Soviet Union, Libya, and Cuba.
In 1993, it established formal diplomatic relations with the United States.
It has entered the Southern African Development Community as a vehicle for improving ties with its largely Anglophone neighbors to the south.
Zimbabwe and Namibia joined Angola in its military intervention in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, where Angolan troops remain in support of the Joseph Kabila government.
Since 1998, Angola has successfully worked with the United Nations Security Council to impose and carry out sanctions on UNITA.
Angola is a member of the Port Management Association of Eastern and Southern Africa (PMAESA).
Diplomatic relations List of countries with which Angola maintains diplomatic relations with: Bilateral relations Africa Americas Asia Europe See also List of diplomatic missions in Angola List of diplomatic missions of Angola Visa requirements for Angolan citizens References External links
Albert Sidney Johnston (February 2, 1803 – April 6, 1862) served as a general in three different armies: the Texian Army, the United States Army, and the Confederate States Army.
Considered by Confederate States President Jefferson Davis to be the finest general officer in the Confederacy before the later emergence of Robert E.
Davis believed the loss of General Johnston "was the turning point of our fate." Johnston was unrelated to Confederate general Joseph E.
Early life and education Johnston was born in Washington, Kentucky, the youngest son of Dr.
John and Abigail (Harris) Johnston.
His father was a native of Salisbury, Connecticut.
Although Albert Johnston was born in Kentucky, he lived much of his life in Texas, which he considered his home.
He was first educated at Transylvania University in Lexington, Kentucky, where he met fellow student Jefferson Davis.
Both were appointed to the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, Davis two years behind Johnston.
In 1826, Johnston graduated eighth of 41 cadets in his class from West Point with a commission as a brevet second lieutenant in the 2nd U.S.
Johnston was assigned to posts in New York and Missouri.
In August 1827 he participated in the expedition to capture Red Bird, the rebellious Winnebago chief.
Johnston later wrote: "I must confess that I consider Red Bird one of the noblest and most dignified men I ever saw...
They had three children, of whom two survived to adulthood.
Their son, William Preston Johnston, became a colonel in the Confederate States Army.
The senior Johnston resigned his commission in 1834 to care for his dying wife in Kentucky, who succumbed two years later to tuberculosis.
In 1843, he married Eliza Griffin, his late wife's first cousin.
The couple moved to Texas, where they settled on a large plantation in Brazoria County.
Johnston named the property "China Grove".
Here they raised Johnston's two children from his first marriage and the first three children born to Eliza and him.
An android is a humanoid robot or other artificial being often made from a flesh-like material.
Historically, androids were completely within the domain of science fiction and frequently seen in film and television, but advances in robot technology now allow the design of functional and realistic humanoid robots.
Terminology The Oxford English Dictionary traces the earliest use (as "Androides") to Ephraim Chambers' 1728 Cyclopaedia, in reference to an automaton that St.
Albertus Magnus allegedly created.
By the late 1700s, "androides", elaborate mechanical devices resembling humans performing human activities, were displayed in exhibit halls.
The term "android" appears in US patents as early as 1863 in reference to miniature human-like toy automatons.
The term android was used in a more modern sense by the French author Auguste Villiers de l'Isle-Adam in his work Tomorrow's Eve (1886).
This story features an artificial humanlike robot named Hadaly.
As said by the officer in the story, "In this age of Realien advancement, who knows what goes on in the mind of those responsible for these mechanical dolls." The term made an impact into English pulp science fiction starting from Jack Williamson's The Cometeers (1936) and the distinction between mechanical robots and fleshy androids was popularized by Edmond Hamilton's Captain Future stories (1940–1944).
Although Karel Čapek's robots in R.U.R.
(Rossum's Universal Robots) (1921)—the play that introduced the word robot to the world—were organic artificial humans, the word "robot" has come to primarily refer to mechanical humans, animals, and other beings.
The term "android" can mean either one of these, while a cyborg ("cybernetic organism" or "bionic man") would be a creature that is a combination of organic and mechanical parts.
The word "android" was used in Star Trek: The Original Series episode "What Are Little Girls Made Of?" The abbreviation "andy", coined as a pejorative by writer Philip K.
Dick in his novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, has seen some further usage, such as within the TV series Total Recall 2070.
Alberta ( ) is one of the thirteen provinces and territories of Canada.
It is a part of Western Canada and is one of the three prairie provinces.
Alberta is bordered by British Columbia to the west, Saskatchewan to the east, the Northwest Territories to the north, and the U.S.
state of Montana to the south.
It is one of the only two landlocked provinces in Canada, with Saskatchewan being the other.
The eastern part of the province is occupied by the Great Plains, while the western part borders the Rocky Mountains.
The province has a predominantly continental climate but experiences quick temperature changes due to air aridity.
Seasonal temperature swings are less pronounced in western Alberta due to occasional Chinook winds.
Alberta is the fourth largest province by area at , and the fourth most populous, being home to 4,262,635 people.
The two are Alberta's largest census metropolitan areas.
More than half of Albertans live in either Edmonton or Calgary, which contributes to continuing the rivalry between the two cities.
English is the official language of the province.
In 2016, 76.0% of Albertans were anglophone, 1.8% were francophone and 22.2% were allophone.
Alberta's economy is based on hydrocarbons, petrochemical industries, livestock and agriculture.
The oil and gas industry has been a pillar of Alberta's economy since 1947, when substantial oil deposits were discovered at Leduc No.
It has also become a part of the province's identity.
Since Alberta is the province most rich in hydrocarbons, it provides 70% of the oil and natural gas produced on Canadian soil.
In 2018, Alberta's output was billion, 15.27% of Canada's GDP.
Until the 1930s, Alberta's political landscape consisted of 2 major parties: the centre-left Liberals and the agrarian United Farmers of Alberta.
Today, Alberta is generally perceived as a conservative province.
The right-wing Social Credit Party held office continually from 1935 to 1971 before the centre-right Progressive Conservatives held office continually from 1971 to 2015, the latter being the longest unbroken run in government at the provincial or federal level in Canadian history.
Before becoming part of Canada, Alberta was home to several First Nations like Plains Indians and Woodland Cree.
It was also a territory used by fur traders of the rival companies Hudson's Bay Company and North West Company.
The Dominion of Canada bought the lands that would become Alberta as part of the NWT in 1870.
From the late 1800s to early 1900s, many immigrants arrived to prevent the prairies from being annexed by the US.
Growing wheat and cattle ranching also became very profitable.
In 1905, the Alberta Act was passed, creating the province of Alberta.
Massive oil reserves were discovered in 1947.
The exploitation of oil sands began in 1967.
Alberta is renowned for its natural beauty, richness in fossils and for housing important nature reserves.
Ambedkar Giulio Angioni Jon Altman Arjun Appadurai Talal Asad Timothy Asch Scott Atran Marc Augé B Nigel Barley Fredrik Barth Vasily Bartold Keith H.
Basso Daisy Bates Gregory Bateson Mary Catherine Bateson Ruth Behar Ruth Benedict Dorothy A.
Berendt Lee Berger Brent Berlin Catherine Helen Webb Berndt Catherine L.
Bestor Lewis Binford Evelyn Blackwood Wilhelm Bleek Maurice Bloch Anton Blok Franz Boas Tom Boellstorff Paul Bohannan Dmitri Bondarenko Pere Bosch-Gimpera Pierre Bourdieu Philippe Bourgois Paul Broca Christian Bromberger Kari Bruwelheide Peter Buck (Te Rangi Hīroa) C Julio Caro Baroja Edmund Carpenter Napoleon Chagnon Pierre Clastres Mabel Cook Cole Malcolm Carr Collier Harold C.
Coon Frank Hamilton Cushing D Regna Darnell Raymond Dart Emma Lou Davis Wade Davis Ernesto de Martino Ella Cara Deloria Raymond J.
DeMallie Philippe Descola Stanley Diamond Mary Douglas Cora Du Bois Eugene Dubois Robin Dunbar Ann Dunham Katherine Dunham Elizabeth Cullen Dunn Émile Durkheim E Mary Lindsay Elmendolf Verrier Elwin Matthew Engelke Friedrich Engels Arturo Escobar E.
Evans-Pritchard F James Ferguson Raymond Firth Raymond D.
Fogelson Meyer Fortes Gregory Forth Dian Fossey Kate Fox Robin Fox James Frazer Lina Fruzzetti G Clifford Geertz Alfred Gell Ernest Gellner Herb Di Gioia Max Gluckman Maurice Godelier Jane Goodall Marjorie Harness Goodwin Igor Gorevich Harold A.
Gould David Graeber Hilma Granqvist J.
Patrick Gray Marcel Griaule Jacob Grimm Wilhelm Grimm H Abdellah Hammoudi Michael Harkin Michael Harner John P.
David Harrison Kirsten Hastrup Jacquetta Hawkes Brian Douglas Hayden Rose Oldfield Hayes Stephen C.
Headley Thor Heyerdahl Arthur Maurice Hocart Ian Hodder E.
Adamson Hoebel Earnest Hooton Robin W.G.
Horton Aleš Hrdlička Eva Verbitsky Hunt Dell Hymes I Miyako Inoue Bill Irons J Ira Jacknis John M.
Johnson William Jones Michal Josephy Jeffrey S.
Juris K Sergei Kan Jomo Kenyatta David Kertzer Alice Beck Kehoe Anatoly Khazanov Dolly Kikon Richard G.
Klein Chris Knight Eduardo Kohn Dorinne K.
Kondo Andrey Korotayev Conrad Kottak Charles H.
Kroeber Theodora Kroeber Lars Krutak Adam Kuper L William Labov George Lakoff Harold E.
Lambert Edmund Leach Eleanor Leacock Murray Leaf Louis Leakey Mary Leakey Richard Leakey Richard Borshay Lee Charles Miller Leslie Claude Lévi-Strauss Ellen Lewin C.
Scott Littleton Albert Buell Lewis Oscar Lewis Phillip Harold Lewis Roland Littlewood Iris López Robert Lowie Nancy Lurie M Alan Macfarlane Saba Mahmood Bronisław Malinowski George Marcus Jonathan M.
Marks Karl Marx John Alden Mason Michael Atwood Mason Marcel Mauss Phillip McArthur Irma McClaurin Charles Harrison McNutt Margaret Mead Mervyn Meggitt Josef Mengele Nicholas Miklouho-Maclay Emily Martin Horace Mitchell Miner Sidney Mintz Ashley Montagu
Actinopterygii (; ), members of which are known as ray-finned fish or actinopterygians, is a class of bony fish that comprise over 50% of living vertebrate species.
They are so called because of their lightly built fins made of webs of skin supported by radially extended bony spines, as opposed to the bulkier, fleshy lobed fins of the sister class Sarcopterygii (lobe-finned fish).
Resembling folding fans, the actinopterygian fins can change shape and wetted area easily, providing superior thrust-to-weight ratios per movement compared to sarcopterygian and chondrichthyian fins.
The fin rays attach directly to the proximal or basal skeletal elements, the radials, which represent the articulation between these fins and the internal skeleton (e.g., pelvic and pectoral girdles).
The vast majority (~99%) of actinopterygians are teleosts.
By species count, they dominate the subphylum Vertebrata, and constitute nearly 99% of the over 30,000 extant species of fish.
They are the most abundant nektonic aquatic animals and are ubiquitous throughout freshwater and marine environments from the deep sea to subterranean waters to the highest mountain streams.
Characteristics Ray-finned fishes occur in many variant forms.
The main features of typical ray-finned fish are shown in the adjacent diagram.
The swim bladder is a more derived structure than the lung and used for buoyancy.
Except from the bichirs, which just like the Sarcopterygii (lobe-finned fish) have retained the ancestral condition of ventrally budding lungs, the swim bladder in ray-finned fishes derives from a dorsal bud above the foregut.
In early forms the swim bladder could still be used for breathing, a trait still present in Holostei (bowfins and gars).
In some fish, like the arapaima, the swim bladder has been modified for breathing air again, and in other lineages it have been completely lost.
Ray-finned fishes have many different types of scales; but all teleosts have leptoid scales.
The outer part of these scales fan out with bony ridges, while the inner part is crossed with fibrous connective tissue.
Leptoid scales are thinner and more transparent than other types of scales, and lack the hardened enamel or dentine-like layers found in the scales of many other fish.
Unlike ganoid scales, which are found in non-teleost actinopterygians, new scales are added in concentric layers as the fish grows.
Teleosts also differ from other ray-finned fishes in having gone through a whole-genome duplication (paleopolyploidy).
Body shapes and fin arrangements Ray-finned fish vary in size and shape, in their feeding specializations, and in the number and arrangement of their ray-fins.
Reproduction In nearly all ray-finned fish, the sexes are separate, and in most species the females spawn eggs that are fertilized externally, typically with the male inseminating the eggs
Albert Einstein ( ; ; 14 March 1879 – 18 April 1955) was a German-born theoretical physicist who is widely held to be one of the greatest and most influential scientists of all time.
His mass–energy equivalence formula , which arises from relativity theory, has been called "the world's most famous equation".
His intellectual achievements and originality have made the word Einstein broadly synonymous with genius.
These outlined a theory of the photoelectric effect, explained Brownian motion, introduced his special theory of relativity—a theory which addressed the inability of classical mechanics to account satisfactorily for the behavior of the electromagnetic field—and demonstrated that if the special theory is correct, mass and energy are equivalent to each other.
In 1915, he proposed a general theory of relativity that extended his system of mechanics to incorporate gravitation.
A cosmological paper that he published the following year laid out the implications of general relativity for the modeling of the structure and evolution of the universe as a whole.
For much of the last phase of his academic life, Einstein worked on two endeavors that proved ultimately unsuccessful.
Firstly, he fought a long rearguard action against quantum theory's introduction of fundamental randomness into science's picture of the world, objecting that "God does not play dice".
Secondly, he attempted to devise a unified field theory by generalizing his geometric theory of gravitation to include electromagnetism too.
Referred to as the Heart of Asia, it is bordered by Pakistan to the east and south, Iran to the west, Turkmenistan to the northwest, Uzbekistan to the north, Tajikistan to the northeast, and China to the northeast and east.
According to the World Population review, , Afghanistan's population is 40.2 million The National Statistics Information Authority of Afghanistan estimated the population to be 32.9 million .
Human habitation in Afghanistan dates to the Middle Paleolithic era.
Popularly referred to as the graveyard of empires, the land has historically been home to various peoples and has witnessed numerous military campaigns, including those by the Persians, Alexander the Great, the Maurya Empire, Arab Muslims, the Mongols, the British, the Soviet Union, and a US-led coalition.
Afghanistan also served as the source from which the Greco-Bactrians and the Mughals, amongst others, rose to form major empires.
The various conquests and periods in both the Iranian and Indian cultural spheres made the area a center for Zoroastrianism, Buddhism, Hinduism, and later Islam.
During this time, Afghanistan became a buffer state in the Great Game between the British Empire and the Russian Empire.
Spanning an area of , it displays a varied range of climatic, geological, hydrological and morphological conditions.
In ancient times, the Illyrians inhabited northern and central regions of Albania, whilst Epirotes inhabited the south.
Several important ancient Greek colonies were also established on the coast.
Albania is a unitary parliamentary constitutional republic.
It went through a process of transition following the end of communism in 1990, from centralised planning to a market-based economy.
Albania provides universal health care and free primary and secondary education to its citizens.
Albania is a member of the United Nations, World Bank, UNESCO, NATO, WTO, COE, OSCE, and OIC.
It has been an official candidate for membership in the European Union since 2014.
It is one of the founding members of the Energy Community, including the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation and Union for the Mediterranean.
Name The historical origins of the term "Albania" can be traced back to medieval Latin, with its foundations believed to be associated with the Illyrian tribe of the Albani.
This connection gains further support from the work of the Ancient Greek geographer Ptolemy dur
Allah (; , , ) is the common Arabic word for God.
In the English language, the word generally refers to God in Islam.
The word Allah has been used by Arabic people of different religions since pre-Islamic times.
The pre-Islamic Arabs worshipped a supreme deity whom they called Allah, alongside other lesser deities.
It is also often, albeit not exclusively, used in this way by Bábists, Baháʼís, Mandaeans, Indonesian and Maltese Christians, and Sephardi Jews, as well as by the Gagauz people.
Similar usage by Christians and Sikhs in Peninsular Malaysia has recently led to political and legal controversies.
Etymology The etymology of the word Allāh has been discussed extensively by classical Arab philologists.
Grammarians of the Basra school regarded it as either formed "spontaneously" (murtajal) or as the definite form of lāh (from the verbal root lyh with the meaning of "lofty" or "hidden").
Others held that it was borrowed from Syriac or Hebrew.
Most considered it to be derived from a contraction of the Arabic definite article al- "the" and "deity, god" to meaning "the deity, the God".
Indeed, there is "the interchangeability of al-ilāh and allāh in early Arabic poetry even when composed by the Christian ʿAdī ibn Zayd".
The majority of modern scholars subscribe to the latter theory, and view the loanword hypothesis with skepticism.
An inscription using the Ancient South Arabian script in Old Arabic from Qaryat al-Fāw reads, "'to Kahl and lh and ʿAththar' (b-khl w-lh w-ʿṯr)".
Cognates of the name "Allāh" exist in other Semitic languages, including Hebrew and Aramaic.
The corresponding Aramaic form is ʼElāh (), but its emphatic state is ().
It is written as () in Biblical Aramaic and () in Syriac as used by the Assyrian Church, both meaning simply "God".
The unusual Syriac form is likely an imitation of the Arabic.
History of usage Pre-Islamic Arabians Regional variants of the word Allah occur in both pagan and Christian pre-Islamic inscriptions.
Different theories have been proposed regarding the role of Allah in pre-Islamic polytheistic cults.
According to the Islamic scholar Ibn Kathir, Arab pagans considered Allah as an unseen God who created and controlled the Universe.
Pagans believed worship of humans or animals who had lucky events in their life brought them closer to God.
Pre-Islamic Meccans worshiped Allah alongside a host
The journal is published by MDPI and was established in 2008.
The founding editor-in-chief was Kazuo Iwama (Kyoto University).
From May 2014 to September 2019, the editor-in-chief was Henning Fernau (Universität Trier).
The current editor-in-chief is Frank Werner (Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg).
Abstracting and indexing According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2022 impact factor of 2.3.
It is a part of the South Caucasus region and is bounded by the Caspian Sea to the east, Russia (Republic of Dagestan) to the north, Georgia to the northwest, Armenia and Turkey to the west, and Iran to the south.
The Azerbaijan Democratic Republic proclaimed its independence from the Transcaucasian Democratic Federative Republic in 1918 and became the first secular democratic Muslim-majority state.
The modern Republic of Azerbaijan proclaimed its independence on 30 August 1991, shortly before the dissolution of the Soviet Union in the same year.
In September 1991, the ethnic Armenian majority of the Nagorno-Karabakh region formed the self-proclaimed Republic of Artsakh.
Azerbaijan is a unitary semi-presidential republic.
It is one of six independent Turkic states and an active member of the Organization of Turkic States and the TÜRKSOY community.
Azerbaijan has diplomatic relations with 182 countries and holds membership in 38 international organizations, including the United Nations, the Council of Europe, the Non-Aligned Movement, the OSCE, and the NATO PfP program.
It is one of the founding members of GUAM, the CIS, and the OPCW.
Azerbaijan is also an observer state of the WTO.
It has a high rate of economic development and literacy, and a low rate of unemployment.
Etymology According to a modern etymology, the term Azerbaijan derives from that of Atropates, a Persian satrap under the Achaemenid Empire, who was later reinstated as the satrap of Media under Alexander the Great.
Even though scientific research may not be their primary goal, some amateur astronomers make contributions in doing citizen science, such as by monitoring variable stars, double stars, sunspots, or occultations of stars by the Moon or asteroids, or by discovering transient astronomical events, such as comets, galactic novae or supernovae in other galaxies.
Amateur astronomers typically view the sky at night, when most celestial objects and astronomical events are visible, but others observe during the daytime by viewing the Sun and solar eclipses.
Some just look at the sky using nothing more than their eyes or binoculars, but more dedicated amateurs often use portable telescopes or telescopes situated in their private or club observatories.
Objectives Collectively, amateur astronomers observe a variety of celestial objects and phenomena.
Common targets of amateur astronomers include the Sun, the Moon, planets, stars, comets, meteor showers, and a variety of deep sky objects such as star clusters, galaxies, and nebulae.
Many amateurs like to specialise in observing particular objects, types of objects, or types of events which interest them.
Astrophotography has become more popular with the introduction of far easier to use equipment including, digital cameras, DSLR cameras and relatively sophisticated purpose built high quality CCD cameras.
Most amateur astronomers work at visible wavelengths, but a small minority experiment with wavelengths outside the visible spectrum.
Aikido ( , , , ) is a modern Japanese martial art that is split into many different styles, including Iwama Ryu, Iwama Shin Shin Aiki Shuren Kai, Shodokan Aikido, Yoshinkan, Renshinkai, Aikikai and Ki Aikido.
Aikido is now practiced in around 140 countries.
Ueshiba's goal was to create an art that practitioners could use to defend themselves while also protecting their attackers from injury.
Aikido is often translated as "the way of unifying (with) life energy" or as "the way of harmonious spirit".
Morihei Ueshiba used the phrase to refer to this principle.
Aikido's fundamental principles include: (entering), , (breathing control), (triangular principle) and (turning) movements that redirect the opponent's attack momentum.
Its curriculum comprises various techniques, primarily throws and joint locks.
It also includes a weapons system encompassing the , and .
Aikido derives mainly from the martial art of Daitō-ryū Aiki-jūjutsu, but began to diverge from it in the late 1920s, partly due to Ueshiba's involvement with the Ōmoto-kyō religion.
Ueshiba's early students' documents bear the term .
Ueshiba's senior students have different approaches to aikido, depending partly on when they studied with him.
Today, aikido is found all over the world in a number of styles, with broad ranges of interpretation and emphasis.
However, they all share techniques formulated by Ueshiba and most have concern for the well-being of the attacker.
This has led to many possible interpretations of the word.
() is mainly used in compounds to mean 'combine, unite, join together, meet', examples being (combined/united), (composition), (unite/combine/join together), (union/alliance/association), (combine/unify), and (mutual agreement).
The characters aeteological history can be traced back to the much older Chinese character of () that is used extensively in Traditional Chinese medicine and acupunture.
The term in Aikido is found in many other Japanese martial arts such as, judo and kendo, and in various no
There is no generally agreed definition of what constitutes art, and its interpretation has varied greatly throughout history and across cultures.
In the Western tradition, the three classical branches of visual art are painting, sculpture, and architecture.
Theatre, dance, and other performing arts, as well as literature, music, film and other media such as interactive media, are included in a broader definition of the arts.
The resulting artworks are studied in the professional fields of art criticism and the history of art.
One early sense of the definition of art is closely related to the older Latin meaning, which roughly translates to "skill" or "craft", as associated with words such as "artisan".
English words derived from this meaning include artifact, artificial, artifice, medical arts, and military arts.
However, there are many other colloquial uses of the word, all with some relation to its etymology.
Over time, philosophers like Plato, Aristotle, Socrates and Immanuel Kant, among others, questioned the meaning of art.
Several dialogues in Plato tackle questions about art: Socrates says that poetry is inspired by the muses, and is not rational.
He speaks approvingly of this, and other forms of divine madness (drunkenness, eroticism, and dreaming) in the Phaedrus (265a–c), and yet in the Republic wants to outlaw Homer's great poetic art, and laughter as well.
In Ion, Socrates gives no hint of the disapproval of Homer that he expresses in the Republic.
With regards to the literary art and the musical arts, Aristotle considered epic poetry, tragedy, comedy, Dithyrambic poetry and music to be mimetic or imitative art, each varying in imitation by medium, object, and manner.
For example, music imitates with the media of rhythm and harmony, whereas dance imitates with rhyth
Agnostida are an order of extinct arthropods which have classically been seen as a group of highly modified trilobites, though some recent research has doubted this placement.
Regardless, they appear to be close relatives as part of the Artiopoda.
They are present in the Lower Cambrian fossil record along with trilobites from the Redlichiida, Corynexochida, and Ptychopariida orders, and were highly diverse throughout the Cambrian.
Agnostidan diversity severely declined during the Cambrian-Ordovician transition, and the last agnostidans went extinct in the Late Ordovician.
Systematics The Agnostida are divided into two suborders — Agnostina and Eodiscina — which are then subdivided into a number of families.
As a group, agnostids are isopygous, meaning their pygidium is similar in size and shape to their cephalon.
Most agnostid species were eyeless.
The systematic position of the order Agnostida within the class Trilobita remains uncertain, and there has been continuing debate whether they are trilobites or a stem group.
The challenge to the status has focused on Agnostina partly due to the juveniles of one genus have been found with legs differing dramatically from those of adult trilobites, suggesting they are not members of the lamellipedian clade, of which trilobites are a part.
Instead, the limbs of agnostids closely resemble those of stem group crustaceans, although they lack the proximal endite, which defines that group.
The study suggested that they were likely the sister taxon to the crustacean stem lineage, and, as such, part of the clade, Crustaceomorpha.
Other researchers have suggested, based on a cladistic analyses of dorsal exoskeletal features, that Eodiscina and Agnostida are closely united, and the Eodiscina descended from the trilobite order Ptychopariida.
A 2019 study of adult specimens with preserved soft tissue from the Burgess Shale found that agnostidans shared morphological similarities to trilobites and other related artiopodans like nektaspids, and their placement as stem-crustaceans was unsupported.
The study recovered agnostidans as the sister group to other trilobites within the Artiopoda.
Ecology Scientists have long debated whether the agnostids lived a pelagic or a benthic lifestyle.
Their lack of eyes, a morphology not well-suited for swimming, and their fossils found in association with other benthic trilobites suggest a benthic (bottom-dwelling) mode of life.
Their wide geographic dispersion in the fossil record is uncharacteristic of benthic animals, suggesting a pelagic existence.
The thoracic segment appears to form a hinge between the head and pygidium allowing for a bivalved ostracodan-type lifestyle.
The orientation of the thoracic appendages appears ill-suited for benthic living.
Recent work suggests that some agnostids were benthic
Abortion is the termination of a pregnancy by removal or expulsion of an embryo or fetus.
An abortion that occurs without intervention is known as a miscarriage or "spontaneous abortion"; these occur in approximately 30% to 40% of all pregnancies.
When deliberate steps are taken to end a pregnancy, it is called an induced abortion, or less frequently "induced miscarriage".
The unmodified word abortion generally refers to an induced abortion.
The reasons why women have abortions are diverse and vary across the world.
Reasons include maternal health, an inability to afford a child, domestic violence, lack of support, feeling they are too young, wishing to complete education or advance a career, and not being able or willing to raise a child conceived as a result of rape or incest.
When done legally in industrialized societies, induced abortion is one of the safest procedures in medicine.
In the United States, the risk of maternal mortality is 14 times lower after induced abortion than after childbirth.
However, medication abortions that are self-managed are highly effective and safe throughout the first trimester.
Modern methods use medication or surgery for abortions.
The drug mifepristone in combination with prostaglandin appears to be as safe and effective as surgery during the first and second trimesters of pregnancy.
The most common surgical technique involves dilating the cervix and using a suction device.
Birth control, such as the pill or intrauterine devices, can be used immediately following abortion.
When performed legally and safely on a woman who desires it, induced abortions do not increase the risk of long-term mental or physical problems.
In contrast, unsafe abortions performed by unskilled individuals, with hazardous equipment, or in unsanitary facilities cause between 22,000 and 44,000 deaths and 6.9 million hospital admissions each year.
The World Health Organization states that "access to legal, safe and comprehensive abortion care, including post-abortion care, is essential for the attainment of the highest possible level of sexual and reproductive health".
Historically, abortions have been attempted using herbal medicines, sharp tools, forceful massage, or other traditional methods.
Around 73 million abortions are performed each year in the world, with about 45% done unsafely.
Abortion rates changed little between 2003 and 2008, before which they decreased for at least two decades as access to family planning and birth control increased.
, 37% of the world's women had access to legal abortions without limits as to reason.
Countries that permit abortions have different limits on how late in pregnancy abortion is allowed.
In law, an abstract is a brief statement that contains the most important points of a long legal document or of several related legal papers.
Types of legislation The abstract of title, used in real estate transactions, is the more common form of abstract.
An abstract of title lists all the owners of a piece of land, a house, or a building before it came into possession of the present owner.
The abstract also records all deeds, wills, mortgages, and other documents that affect ownership of the property.
An abstract describes a chain of transfers from owner to owner and any agreements by former owners that are binding on later owners.
Patent law In the context of patent law and specifically in prior art searches, searching through abstracts is a common way to find relevant prior art document to question to novelty or inventive step (or non-obviousness in United States patent law) of an invention.
Under United States patent law, the abstract may be called "Abstract of the Disclosure".
References External links , defining the requirements regarding the abstract in an international application filed under Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) and (previously ), defining the abstract-related requirements in a European patent application Legal research
The British and Loyalist forces also included Hessian soldiers from Germany.
The American colonies were established by royal charter in the 17th and 18th centuries.
They were initially largely autonomous in domestic affairs and commercially prosperous, trading with Britain, its Caribbean colonies, and other European powers via their Caribbean entrepôts.
Resulting British military occupation led to the Boston Massacre in 1770, which strengthened American Patriots' desire for independence from Britain.
The British responded by repealing earlier taxation measures, but in 1773, the British Parliament adopted the Tea Act to demonstrate supremacy, a measure which led to the Boston Tea Party on December 16, 1773.
In response, the British Parliament imposed the Intolerable Acts in mid-1774, closed Boston Harbor, and revoked Massachusetts' charter, which placed the colony under the British monarchy's direct governance.
These measures rallied the other colonies, 12 of which sent delegates to the First Continental Congress in Philadelphia in early September 1774 to protest the measures and deliberate on potential responses.
In June, the Second Continental Congress formalized Patriot militias into the Continental Army and appointed George Washington its commander-in-chief.
The coercion policy advocated by the North ministry was opposed by a faction within the British
The ampere ( , ; symbol: A), often shortened to amp, is the unit of electric current in the International System of Units (SI).
One ampere is equal to 1 coulomb moving past a point in 1 second, or electrons' worth of charge moving past a point in 1 second.
It is named after French mathematician and physicist André-Marie Ampère (1775–1836), considered the father of electromagnetism along with Danish physicist Hans Christian Ørsted.
As of the 2019 redefinition of the SI base units, the ampere is defined by fixing the elementary charge to be exactly (coulomb), which means an ampere is an electric current equivalent to elementary charges moving every seconds or elementary charges moving in a second.
Prior to the redefinition the ampere was defined as the current passing through 2 parallel wires 1 metre apart that produces a magnetic force of newtons per metre.
The earlier CGS system has two units of current, one structured similar to the SI's and the other using Coulomb's law as a fundamental relationship, with the unit of charge defined by measuring the force between two charged metal plates.
The unit of current is then defined as one unit of charge per second.
In SI, the unit of charge, the coulomb, is defined as the charge carried by one ampere during one second.
History The ampere is named for French physicist and mathematician André-Marie Ampère (1775–1836), who studied electromagnetism and laid the foundation of electrodynamics.
The ampere was originally defined as one tenth of the unit of electric current in the centimetre–gram–second system of units.
That unit, now known as the abampere, was defined as the amount of current that generates a force of two dynes per centimetre of length between two wires one centimetre apart.
The size of the unit was chosen so that the units derived from it in the MKSA system would be conveniently sized.
The "international ampere" was an early realization of the ampere, defined as the current that would deposit of silver per second from a silver nitrate solution.
Later, more accurate measurements revealed that this current is .
Since power is defined as the product of current and voltage, the ampere can alternatively be expressed in terms of the other units using the relationship , and thus 1 A = 1 W/V.
Current can be measured by a multimeter, a device that can measure electrical voltage, current, and resistance.
Former definition in the SI Until 2019, the SI defined the ampere as follows: The ampere is that constant current which, if maintained in two straight parallel conductors of infinite length, of negligible circular cross-section, and placed one metre apart in vacuum, would produce between these conductors a force equal to
Algorithms are used as specifications for performing calculations and data processing.
Using human characteristics as descriptors of machines in metaphorical ways was already practiced by Alan Turing with terms such as "memory", "search" and "stimulus".
In contrast, a heuristic is an approach to problem solving that may not be fully specified or may not guarantee correct or optimal results, especially in problem domains where there is no well-defined correct or optimal result.
As an effective method, an algorithm can be expressed within a finite amount of space and time and in a well-defined formal language for calculating a function.
Starting from an initial state and initial input (perhaps empty), the instructions describe a computation that, when executed, proceeds through a finite number of well-defined successive states, eventually producing "output" and terminating at a final ending state.
The transition from one state to the next is not necessarily deterministic; some algorithms, known as randomized algorithms, incorporate random input.
History Ancient algorithms Since antiquity, step-by-step procedures for solving mathematical problems have been attested.
Al-Khwārizmī and the term algorithm Around 825, Muḥammad ibn Mūsā al-Khwārizmī wrote kitāb al-ḥisāb al-hindī ("Book of Indian computation") and kitab al-jam' wa'l-tafriq al-ḥisāb al-hindī ("Addition and subtraction in Indian arithmetic").
Both of these texts are lost in the original Arabic at this time.
In 1240, Alexander of Villedieu writes a Latin text titled Carmen de Algorismo.
It begins with: which translates to: The poem is a few hundred lines long and s
An annual plant is a plant that completes its life cycle, from germination to the production of seeds, within one growing season, and then dies.
The length of growing seasons and period in which they take place vary according to geographical location, and may not correspond to the four traditional seasonal divisions of the year.
Description With respect to the traditional seasons, annual plants are generally categorized into summer annuals and winter annuals.
Summer annuals germinate during spring or early summer and mature by autumn of the same year.
Winter annuals germinate during the autumn and mature during the spring or summer of the following calendar year.
One seed-to-seed life cycle for an annual plant can occur in as little as a month in some species, though most last several months.
Oilseed rapa can go from seed-to-seed in about five weeks under a bank of fluorescent lamps.
This style of growing is often used in classrooms for education.
Many desert annuals are therophytes, because their seed-to-seed life cycle is only weeks and they spend most of the year as seeds to survive dry conditions.
Cultivation In cultivation, many food plants are, or are grown as, annuals, including virtually all domesticated grains.
Some perennials and biennials are grown in gardens as annuals for convenience, particularly if they are not considered cold hardy for the local climate.
Carrot, celery and parsley are true biennials that are usually grown as annual crops for their edible roots, petioles and leaves, respectively.
Tomato, sweet potato and bell pepper are tender perennials usually grown as annuals.
Ornamental perennials commonly grown as annuals are impatiens, mirabilis, wax begonia, snapdragon, pelargonium, coleus and petunia.
Examples of true annuals include corn, wheat, rice, lettuce, peas, watermelon, beans, zinnia and marigold.
The lawn weed crabgrass is a summer annual.
Winter Winter annuals germinate in autumn or winter, live through the winter, and then bloom in winter or spring.
Winter annuals die after flowering and setting seed.
The seeds germinate in the autumn or winter when the soil temperature is cool.
Some common winter annuals include henbit, deadnettle, chickweed, and winter cress.
Winter annuals are important ecologically, as they provide vegetative cover that prevents soil erosion during winter and early spring when no other cover exists and they provide fresh vegetation for animals and birds that feed on them.
Although they are often considered to be weeds in gardens, this view
The anthophytes are a paraphyletic grouping of plant taxa bearing flower-like reproductive structures.
Detailed morphological and molecular studies have shown that the group is not actually monophyletic, with proposed floral homologies of the gnetophytes and the angiosperms having evolved in parallel.
This makes it easier to reconcile molecular clock data that suggests that the angiosperms diverged from the gymnosperms around 320-300 mya.
Some more recent studies have used the word anthophyte to describe a hypothetical group which includes the angiosperms and a variety of extinct seed plant groups (with various suggestions including at least some of the following groups: glossopterids, corystosperms, Petriellales Pentoxylales, Bennettitales and Caytoniales), but not the Gnetales.
References Historically recognized plant taxa
An atlas is a collection of maps.
Atlas, a Marvel Comics supervillain The Atlas, a strong driving force from No Man's Sky Literature Atlas, a photography book by Gerhard Richter ATLAS of Finite Groups, a group theory book Atlas Shrugged, a novel by Ayn Rand The Atlas (novel), by William T.
Mouthwash, mouth rinse, oral rinse, or mouth bath is a liquid which is held in the mouth passively or swirled around the mouth by contraction of the perioral muscles and/or movement of the head, and may be gargled, where the head is tilted back and the liquid bubbled at the back of the mouth.
Usually mouthwashes are antiseptic solutions intended to reduce the microbial load in the mouth, although other mouthwashes might be given for other reasons such as for their analgesic, anti-inflammatory or anti-fungal action.
Additionally, some rinses act as saliva substitutes to neutralize acid and keep the mouth moist in xerostomia (dry mouth).
Cosmetic mouthrinses temporarily control or reduce bad breath and leave the mouth with a pleasant taste.
Rinsing with water or mouthwash after brushing with a fluoride toothpaste can reduce the availability of salivary fluoride.
This can lower the anti-cavity re-mineralization and antibacterial effects of fluoride.
Fluoridated mouthwash may mitigate this effect or in high concentrations increase available fluoride, but is not as cost-effective as leaving the fluoride toothpaste on the teeth after brushing.
A group of experts discussing post brushing rinsing in 2012 found that although there was clear guidance given in many public health advice publications to "spit, avoid rinsing with water/excessive rinsing with water" they believed there was a limited evidence base for best practice.
Use Common use involves rinsing the mouth with about 20–50 ml (2/3 fl oz) of mouthwash.
The wash is typically swished or gargled for about half a minute and then spat out.
In some brands, the expectorate is stained, so that one can see the bacteria and debris.
Mouthwash should not be used immediately after brushing the teeth so as not to wash away the beneficial fluoride residue left from the toothpaste.
Similarly, the mouth should not be rinsed out with water after brushing.
Patients were told to "spit don't rinse" after toothbrushing as part of a National Health Service campaign in the UK.
A fluoride mouthrinse can be used at a different time of the day to brushing.
Gargling is where the head is tilted back, allowing the mouthwash to sit in the back of the mouth while exhaling, causing the liquid to bubble.
Gargling is practiced in Japan for perceived prevention of viral infection.
One commonly used way is with infusions or tea.
In some cultures, gargling is usually done in private, typically in a bathroom at a sink so the liquid can be rinsed away.
Dangerous misuse If one drinks mouthwash, serious harm and even death can quickly result from the high alcohol content and other harmful substances in mouthwash.
Effects The most-commonly-used mouthwashes are commercial antiseptics, which are used at home as part of an oral hygiene
He succeeded his father Philip II to the throne in 336 BC at the age of 20, and spent most of his ruling years conducting a lengthy military campaign throughout Western Asia and Egypt.
By the age of 30, he had created one of the largest empires in history, stretching from Greece to northwestern India.
Until the age of 16, Alexander was tutored by Aristotle.
Alexander then led the League of Corinth, and used his authority to launch the pan-Hellenic project envisaged by his father, assuming leadership over all Greeks in their conquest of Persia.
In 334 BC, he invaded the Achaemenid Persian Empire and began a series of campaigns that lasted for 10 years.
Alexander's death left unexecuted an additional series of planned military and mercantile campaigns that would have begun with a Greek invasion of Arabia.
Alexander's settlement of Greek colonists and the resulting spread of Greek culture led to the overwhelming dominance of Hellenistic civilization and influence as far east as the Indian subcontinent.
The Hellenistic period developed through the Roman Empire into modern Western culture; the Greek language became the lingua franca of the region and was the predominant language of the B
Alfred Habdank Skarbek Korzybski (, ; July 3, 1879 – March 1, 1950) was a Polish-American independent scholar who developed a field called general semantics, which he viewed as both distinct from, and more encompassing than, the field of semantics.
He argued that human knowledge of the world is limited both by the human nervous system and the languages humans have developed, and thus no one can have direct access to reality, given that the most we can know is that which is filtered through the brain's responses to reality.
His best known dictum is "The map is not the territory".
He learned the Polish language at home and the Russian language in schools, and having a French and German governess, he became fluent in four languages as a child.
After being wounded in a leg and suffering other injuries, he moved to North America in 1916 (first to Canada, then to the United States) to coordinate the shipment of artillery to Russia.
He met Mira Edgerly, a painter of portraits on ivory, shortly after the 1918 Armistice; They married in January 1919; the marriage lasted until his death.
Dutton published Korzybski's first book, Manhood of Humanity, in 1921.
In this work he proposed and explained in detail a new theory of humankind: mankind as a "time-binding" class of life (humans perform time binding by the transmission of knowledge and abstractions through time which become accreted in cultures).
In 1925 and 1926, Korzybski observed psychiatric patients at St.
under the supervision of William Alanson White.
General semantics Korzybski's work culminated in the initiation of a discipline that he named general semantics (GS).
This should not be confused with semantics.
The basic principles of general semantics, which include time-binding, are described in the publication Science and Sanity, published in 1933.
In 1938, Korzybski founded the Institute of General Semantics in Chicago.
Korzybski maintained that humans are limited in what they know by (1) the structure of their nervous systems, and (2) the structure of their languages.
Humans cannot experience the world directly, but only through their "abstractions" (nonverba
Asteroids is a space-themed multidirectional shooter arcade video game designed by Lyle Rains and Ed Logg released in November 1979 by Atari, Inc.
The player controls a single spaceship in an asteroid field which is periodically traversed by flying saucers.
The object of the game is to shoot and destroy the asteroids and saucers, while not colliding with either, or being hit by the saucers' counter-fire.
The game becomes harder as the number of asteroids increases.
The game is rendered on a vector display in a two-dimensional view that wraps around both screen axes.
Asteroids was one of the first major hits of the golden age of arcade games; the game sold 47,840 upright cabinets and 8,725 cocktail cabinets arcade cabinets and proved both popular with players and influential with developers.
In the 1980s it was ported to Atari's home systems, and the Atari VCS version sold over three million copies.
The game was widely imitated, and it directly influenced Defender, Gravitar, and many other video games.
Gameplay The objective of Asteroids is to destroy asteroids and saucers.
Once the ship begins moving in a direction, it will continue in that direction for a time without player intervention unless the player applies thrust in a different direction.
The ship eventually comes to a stop when not thrusting.
The player can also send the ship into hyperspace, causing it to disappear and reappear in a random location on the screen, at the risk of self-destructing or appearing on top of an asteroid.
Each level starts with a few large asteroids drifting in various directions on the screen.
Objects wrap around screen edges – for instance, an asteroid that drifts off the top edge of the screen reappears at the bottom and continues moving in the same direction.
As the player shoots asteroids, they break into smaller asteroids that move faster and are more difficult to hit.
Smaller asteroids are also worth more points.
Two flying saucers appear periodically on the screen; the "big saucer" shoots randomly and poorly, while the "small saucer" fires frequently at the ship.
After reaching a score of 40,000, only the small saucer appears.
As the player's score increases, the angle range of the shots from the small saucer diminishes until the saucer fires extremely accurately.
Once the screen has been cleared of all asteroids and flying saucers, a new set of large asteroids appears, thus starting the next level.
The game gets harder as the number of asteroids increases until after
Asparagales (asparagoid lilies) is an order of plants in modern classification systems such as the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group (APG) and the Angiosperm Phylogeny Web.
The order takes its name from the type family Asparagaceae and is placed in the monocots amongst the lilioid monocots.
The order has only recently been recognized in classification systems.
DNA sequence analysis indicated that many of the taxa previously included in Liliales should actually be redistributed over three orders, Liliales, Asparagales, and Dioscoreales.
The boundaries of the Asparagales and of its families have undergone a series of changes in recent years; future research may lead to further changes and ultimately greater stability.
In the APG circumscription, Asparagales is the largest order of monocots with 14 families, 1,122 genera, and about 36,000 species.
The order is clearly circumscribed on the basis of molecular phylogenetics, but it is difficult to define morphologically since its members are structurally diverse.
Most species of Asparagales are herbaceous perennials, although some are climbers and some are tree-like.
The order also contains many geophytes (bulbs, corms, and various kinds of tuber).
According to telomere sequence, at least two evolutionary switch-points happened within the order.
The basal sequence is formed by TTTAGGG like in the majority of higher plants.
Basal motif was changed to vertebrate-like TTAGGG and finally, the most divergent motif CTCGGTTATGGG appears in Allium.
One of the defining characteristics (synapomorphies) of the order is the presence of phytomelanin, a black pigment present in the seed coat, creating a dark crust.
The leaves of almost all species form a tight rosette, either at the base of the plant or at the end of the stem, but occasionally along the stem.
The flowers are not particularly distinctive, being 'lily type', with six tepals and up to six stamina.
From an economic point of view, the order Asparagales is second in importance within the monocots only to the order Poales (which includes grasses and cereals).
Species are used as food and flavourings (e.g.
onion, garlic, leek, asparagus, vanilla, saffron), in medicinal or cosmetic applications (Aloe), as cut flowers (e.g.
freesia, gladiolus, iris, orchids), and as ga
The Alismatales (alismatids) are an order of flowering plants including about 4,500 species.
Plants assigned to this order are mostly tropical or aquatic.
Some grow in fresh water, some in marine habitats.
Perhaps the most important food crop in the order is the corm of the taro plant, Colocasia esculenta.
Description The Alismatales comprise herbaceous flowering plants of often aquatic and marshy habitats, and the only monocots known to have green embryos other than the Amaryllidaceae.
They also include the only marine angiosperms growing completely submerged, the seagrasses.
The flowers are usually arranged in inflorescences, and the mature seeds lack endosperm.
Both marine and freshwater forms include those with staminate flowers that detach from the parent plant and float to the surface.
There they can pollinate carpellate flowers floating on the surface via long pedicels.
In others, pollination occurs underwater, where pollen may form elongated strands, increasing chance of success.
Most aquatic species have a totally submerged juvenile phase, and flowers are either floating or emerge above the water's surface.
Vegetation may be totally submersed, have floating leaves, or protrude from the water.
Collectively, they are commonly known as "water plantain".
Taxonomy The Alismatales contain about 165 genera in 13 families, with a cosmopolitan distribution.
Phylogenetically, they are basal monocots, diverging early in evolution relative to the lilioid and commelinid monocot lineages.
Together with the Acorales, the Alismatales are referred to informally as the alismatid monocots.
Early systems The Cronquist system (1981) places the Alismatales in subclass Alismatidae, class Liliopsida [= monocotyledons] and includes only three families as shown: Alismataceae Butomaceae Limnocharitaceae Cronquist's subclass Alismatidae conformed fairly closely to the order Alismatales as defined by APG, minus the Araceae.
Other families included in the Alismatates as currently defined are here distributed among 10 additional orders, all of which are assigned, with the following exception, to the Subclass Alismatidae.
Araceae in Tahktajan 1997 is assigned to the Arales and placed in the Subclass Aridae; Tofieldiaceae to the Melanthiales and placed in the Liliidae.
The Apiales are an order of flowering plants.
The families are those recognized in the APG III system.
This is typical of the newer classifications, though there is some slight variation and in particular, the Torriceliaceae may also be divided.
Under this definition, well-known members include carrots, celery, parsley, and Hedera helix (English ivy).
The order Apiales is placed within the asterid group of eudicots as circumscribed by the APG III system.
Within the asterids, Apiales belongs to an unranked group called the campanulids, and within the campanulids, it belongs to a clade known in phylogenetic nomenclature as Apiidae.
In 2010, a subclade of Apiidae named Dipsapiidae was defined to consist of the three orders: Apiales, Paracryphiales, and Dipsacales.
Taxonomy Under the Cronquist system, only the Apiaceae and Araliaceae were included here, and the restricted order was placed among the rosids rather than the asterids.
The Pittosporaceae were placed within the Rosales, and many of the other forms within the family Cornaceae.
Pennantia was in the family Icacinaceae.
In the classification system of Dahlgren the families Apiaceae and Araliaceae were placed in the order Ariales, in the superorder Araliiflorae (also called Aralianae).
The present understanding of the Apiales is fairly recent and is based upon comparison of DNA sequences by phylogenetic methods.
The circumscriptions of some of the families have changed.
In 2009, one of the subfamilies of Araliaceae was shown to be polyphyletic.
Gynoecia The largest and obviously closely related families of Apiales are Araliaceae, Myodocarpaceae and Apiaceae, which resemble each other in the structure of their gynoecia.
In this respect however, the Pittosporaceae is notably distinct from them.
Typical syncarpous gynoecia exhibit four vertical zones, determined by the extent of fusion of the carpels.
In most plants the synascidiate (i.e.
"united bottle-shaped") and symplicate zones are fertile and bear the ovules.
Each of the first three families possess mainly bi- or multilocular ovaries in a gynoecium with a long synascidiate, but very short symplicate zone, where the ovules are inserted at their transition, the so-called cross-zone (or "Querzone").
In gynoecia of the Pittosporaceae, the symplicate is much longer than the synascidiate zone, and the ovules are arranged along the first.
Members of the latter family consequently have unilocular ovaries with a single cavity between adjacent carpels.
References Angiosperm orders Taxa named by Takenoshin Nakai
Asterales () is an order of dicotyledonous flowering plants that includes the large family Asteraceae (or Compositae) known for composite flowers made of florets, and ten families related to the Asteraceae.
While asterids in general are characterized by fused petals, composite flowers consisting of many florets create the false appearance of separate petals (as found in the rosids).
The order is cosmopolitan (plants found throughout most of the world including desert and frigid zones), and includes mostly herbaceous species, although a small number of trees (such as the Lobelia deckenii, the giant lobelia, and Dendrosenecio, giant groundsels) and shrubs are also present.
Asterales are organisms that seem to have evolved from one common ancestor.
Asterales share characteristics on morphological and biochemical levels.
Synapomorphies (a character that is shared by two or more groups through evolutionary development) include the presence in the plants of oligosaccharide inulin, a nutrient storage molecule used instead of starch; and unique stamen morphology.
The stamens are usually found around the style, either aggregated densely or fused into a tube, probably an adaptation in association with the plunger (brush; or secondary) pollination that is common among the families of the order, wherein pollen is collected and stored on the length of the pistil.
Taxonomy The name and order Asterales is botanically venerable, dating back to at least 1926 in the Hutchinson system of plant taxonomy when it contained only five families, of which only two are retained in the APG III classification.
Under the Cronquist system of taxonomic classification of flowering plants, Asteraceae was the only family in the group, but newer systems (such as APG II and APG III) have expanded it to 11.
In the classification system of Rolf Dahlgren the Asterales were in the superorder Asteriflorae (also called Asteranae).
The order Asterales currently includes 11 families, the largest of which are the Asteraceae, with about 25,000 species, and the Campanulaceae (bellflowers), with about 2,000 species.
The remaining families count together for less than 1500 species.
The two large families are cosmopolitan, with many of their species found in the Northern Hemisphere, and the smaller families are usually confined to Australia and the adjacent areas, or sometimes South America.
Only the Asteraceae have composite flower heads; the other families do not, but share other characteristics such as storage of inulin that define the 11 families as more closely related to each other than to other plant families or orders such as the rosids.
The phylogenetic tree according to APG III for the Campanulid clade is as below.
Phylogeny Although most extant species of Asteraceae are herbaceous, the examination of the basal members in the family suggests that the common ancestor of the family was an arborescent plant, a tree or shrub, perhaps adapted to dry conditions, radiating from South
An asteroid is a minor planet—an object that is neither a true planet nor a comet—that orbits within the inner Solar System.
They are rocky, metallic or icy bodies with no atmosphere.
Of the roughly one million known asteroids the greatest number are located between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, approximately 2 to 4 AU from the Sun, in the main asteroid belt.
Asteroids are generally classified to be of three types: C-type, M-type, and S-type.
These were named after and are generally identified with carbonaceous, metallic, and silicaceous compositions, respectively.
The total mass of all the asteroids combined is only 3% that of Earth's Moon.
Asteroids have been historically observed from Earth; the Galileo spacecraft provided the first close observation of an asteroid.
Several dedicated missions to asteroids were subsequently launched by NASA and JAXA, with plans for other missions in progress.
NASA's NEAR Shoemaker studied Eros, and Dawn observed Vesta and Ceres.
JAXA's missions Hayabusa and Hayabusa2 studied and returned samples of Itokawa and Ryugu, respectively.
OSIRIS-REx studied Bennu, collecting a sample in 2020 which was delivered back to Earth in 2023.
NASA's Lucy, launched in 2021, will study ten different asteroids, two from the main belt and eight Jupiter trojans.
Psyche, launched in October 2023, will study a metallic asteroid of the same name.
Near-Earth asteroids can threaten all life on the planet; an asteroid impact event resulted in the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction.
Different asteroid deflection strategies have been proposed; the Double Asteroid Redirection Test spacecraft, or DART, was launched in 2021 and intentionally impacted Dimorphos in September 2022, successfully altering its orbit by crashing into it.
History of observations Only one asteroid, 4 Vesta, which has a relatively reflective surface, is normally visible to the naked eye.
When favorably positioned, 4 Vesta can be seen in dark skies.
Rarely, small asteroids passing close to Earth may be visible to the naked eye for a short amount of time.
, the Minor Planet Center had data on 1,199,224 minor planets in the inner and outer Solar System, of which about 614,690 had enough information to be given numbered designations.
Discovery of Ceres In 1772, German astronomer Johann Elert Bode, citing Johann Daniel Titius, published a numerical procession known as the Titius–Bode law (now discredited).
Except for an unexplained gap between Mars and Jupiter, Bode's formula seemed to predict the orbits of the known planets.
An allocution, or allocutus, is a formal statement made to the court by the defendant who has been found guilty prior to being sentenced.
It is part of the criminal procedure in some jurisdictions using common law.
In plea bargains, an allocution may be required of the defendant.
The defendant explicitly admits specifically and in detail the actions and their reasons in exchange for a reduced sentence.
In principle, that removes any doubt as to the exact nature of the defendant's guilt in the matter.
The term "allocution" is used generally only in jurisdictions in the United States, but there are vaguely similar processes in other common law countries.
In many other jurisdictions, it is for the defense lawyer to mitigate on their client's behalf, and the defendant rarely has the opportunity to speak.
Australia In Australia, the term allocutus is used by the Clerk of Arraigns or another formal associate of the court.
It is generally phrased as, "Prisoner at the Bar, you have been found Guilty by a jury of your peers of the offense of XYZ.
Do you have anything to say as to why the sentence of this Court should not now be passed upon you?" The defense counsel will then make a plea in mitigation (also called submissions on penalty) in an attempt to mitigate the relative seriousness of the offense and heavily refer to and rely upon the defendant's previous good character and good works, if any.
The right to make a plea in mitigation is absolute.
If a judge or magistrate refuses to hear such a plea or does not properly consider it, the sentence can be overturned on appeal.
United States In most of the United States, defendants are allowed the opportunity to allocute before a sentence is passed.
Some jurisdictions hold that as an absolute right.
In its absence, a sentence but not the conviction may be overturned, resulting in the need for a new sentencing hearing.
In the federal system, Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure 32(i)(4) provides that the court must "address the defendant personally in order to permit the defendant to speak or present any information to mitigate the sentence." The federal public defender recommends that defendants speak in terms of how a lenient sentence will be sufficient but not greater than necessary to comply with the statutory directives set forth in .
See also Confession (law) References Criminal procedure Evidence law
An ( ; Medieval Latin for "he has declared under oath") is a written statement voluntarily made by an affiant or deponent under an oath or affirmation which is administered by a person who is authorized to do so by law.
Definition An affidavit is typically defined as a written declaration or statement that is sworn or affirmed before a person who has authority to administer an oath.
There is no general defined form for an affidavit, although for some proceedings an affidavit must satisfy legal or statutory requirements in order to be considered.
An affidavit may include, a commencement which identifies the affiant; an attestation clause, usually a jurat, at the end certifying that the affiant made the statement under oath on the specified date; signatures of the affiant and person who administered the oath.
In some cases, an introductory clause, called a preamble, is added attesting that the affiant personally appeared before the authenticating authority.
An affidavit may also recite that the statement it records was made under penalty of perjury.
An affidavit that is prepared for use within the context of litigation may also include a caption that identifies the venue and parties to the relevant judicial proceedings.
Worldwide Australia On 2 March 2016, the High Court of Australia held that the ACT Uniform Evidence Legislation is neutral in the way sworn evidence and unsworn evidence is treated as being of equal weight.
According the UK government website, “The affidavit can be sworn or affirmed by a solicitor, notary or commissioner for oaths (for a charge) or by an authorised member of court staff.” India In Indian law, although an affidavit may be taken as proof of the facts stated therein, the courts have no jurisdiction to admit evidence by way of affidavit.
Affidavit is not treated as "evidence" within the meaning of Section 3 of the Evidence Act.
However, it was held by the Supreme Court that an affidavit can be used as evidence only if the court so orders for sufficient reasons, namely, the right of the opposite party to have the deponent produced for cross-examination.
Therefore, an affidavit cannot ordinarily be used as evidence in absence of a specific order of the court.
Sri Lanka In Sri Lanka, under the Oaths Ordinance, with the exception of a court-martial, a person may submit an affidavit signed in the presence of a commissioner for oaths or a justice of the peace.
Ireland Affidavits are made in a similar way as to England and Wales, although "make oath" is sometimes omit
Aries is one of the constellations of the zodiac.
It is located in the Northern celestial hemisphere between Pisces to the west and Taurus to the east.
The name Aries is Latin for ram.
Its old astronomical symbol is (♈︎).
Aries has represented a ram since late Babylonian times.
Before that, the stars of Aries formed a farmhand.
Different cultures have incorporated the stars of Aries into different constellations including twin inspectors in China and a porpoise in the Marshall Islands.
Aries is a relatively dim constellation, possessing only four bright stars: Hamal (Alpha Arietis, second magnitude), Sheratan (Beta Arietis, third magnitude), Mesarthim (Gamma Arietis, fourth magnitude), and 41 Arietis (also fourth magnitude).
The few deep-sky objects within the constellation are quite faint and include several pairs of interacting galaxies.
Several meteor showers appear to radiate from Aries, including the Daytime Arietids and the Epsilon Arietids.
History and mythology Aries is now recognized as an official constellation, albeit as a specific region of the sky, by the International Astronomical Union.
It was originally defined in ancient texts as a specific pattern of stars, and has remained a constellation since ancient times; it now includes the ancient pattern and the surrounding stars.
In the description of the Babylonian zodiac given in the clay tablets known as the MUL.APIN, the constellation, now known as Aries, was the final station along the ecliptic.
The MUL.APIN was a comprehensive table of the rising and settings of stars, which likely served as an agricultural calendar.
Modern-day Aries was known as , "The Agrarian Worker" or "The Hired Man".
The earliest identifiable reference to Aries as a distinct constellation comes from the boundary stones that date from 1350 to 1000 BC.
On several boundary stones, a zodiacal ram figure is distinct from the other characters.
The shift in identification from the constellation as the Agrarian Worker to the Ram likely occurred in later Babylonian tradition because of its growing association with Dumuzi the Shepherd.
By the time the MUL.APIN was created—in 1000 BC—modern Aries was identified with both Dumuzi's ram and a hired labourer.
The exact timing of this shift is difficult to determine due to the lack of images of Aries or other ram figures.
Aquarius is an equatorial constellation of the zodiac, between Capricornus and Pisces.
Its name is Latin for "water-carrier" or "cup-carrier", and its old astronomical symbol is (♒︎), a representation of water.
Aquarius is one of the oldest of the recognized constellations along the zodiac (the Sun's apparent path).
At apparent magnitude 2.9, Beta Aquarii is the brightest star in the constellation.
History and mythology Aquarius is identified as "The Great One" in the Babylonian star catalogues and represents the god Ea himself, who is commonly depicted holding an overflowing vase.
The Babylonian star-figure appears on entitlement stones and cylinder seals from the second millennium.
It contained the winter solstice in the Early Bronze Age.
Aquarius was also associated with the destructive floods that the Babylonians regularly experienced, and thus was negatively connoted.
In the Greek tradition, the constellation came to be represented simply as a single vase from which a stream poured down to Piscis Austrinus.
The name in the Hindu zodiac is likewise kumbha "water-pitcher".
In Greek mythology, Aquarius is sometimes associated with Deucalion, the son of Prometheus who built a ship with his wife Pyrrha to survive an imminent flood.
They sailed for nine days before washing ashore on Mount Parnassus.
Neighboring Aquila represents the eagle, under Zeus' command, that snatched the young boy; some versions of the myth indicate that the eagle was in fact Zeus transformed.
An alternative version of the tale recounts Ganymede's kidnapping by the goddess of the dawn, Eos, motivated by her affection for young men; Zeus then stole him from Eos and employed him as cup-bearer.
His water jar, an asterism itself, consists of Gamma, Pi, Eta, and Zeta Aquarii; it pours water in a stream of more than 20 stars terminating with Fomalhaut, now assigned solely to Piscis Austri
is hand-drawn and computer-generated animation originating from Japan.
Outside Japan and in English, anime refers specifically to animation produced in Japan.
However, in Japan and in Japanese, (a term derived from a shortening of the English word animation) describes all animated works, regardless of style or origin.
Many works of animation with a similar style to Japanese animation are also produced outside Japan.
Video games sometimes also feature themes and artstyles that can be considered as "anime".
The earliest commercial Japanese animations date to 1917.
A characteristic art style emerged in the 1960s with the works of cartoonist Osamu Tezuka and spread in following decades, developing a large domestic audience.
Anime is distributed theatrically, through television broadcasts, directly to home media, and over the Internet.
In addition to original works, anime are often adaptations of Japanese comics (manga), light novels, or video games.
It is classified into numerous genres targeting various broad and niche audiences.
Anime is a diverse medium with distinctive production methods that have adapted in response to emergent technologies.
It combines graphic art, characterization, cinematography, and other forms of imaginative and individualistic techniques.
Compared to Western animation, anime production generally focuses less on movement, and more on the detail of settings and use of "camera effects", such as panning, zooming, and angle shots.
Diverse art styles are used, and character proportions and features can be quite varied, with a common characteristic feature being large and emotive eyes.
The anime industry consists of over 430 production companies, including major studios such as Studio Ghibli, Kyoto Animation, Sunrise, Bones, Ufotable, MAPPA, Wit Studio, CoMix Wave Films, Production I.G and Toei Animation.
Since the 1980s, the medium has also seen widespread international success with the rise of foreign dubbed, subtitled programming, and since the 2010s its increasing distribution through streaming services and a widening demographic embrace of anime culture, both within Japan and worldwide.
Japanese animation accounted for 60% of the world's animated television shows.
Etymology As a type of animation, anime is an art form that comprises many genres found in other mediums; it is sometimes mistakenly classified as a genre itself.
In Japanese, the term anime is used to refer to all animated works, regardless of style or origin.
English-language dictionaries typically define anime () as "a style of Japanese animation" or as "a style of animation originating in Japan".
The etymology of the term anime is disputed.
The English word "animation" is written in Japanese katakana as () and as (, ) in its shortened form.
Some sources claim that the term is derived from the French term for animation ("cartoon", literal
The hill remains crowned by the ruins of Ankara Castle.
The area is also known for its pears, honey and Muscat grapes.
Etymology The orthography of the name Ankara has varied over the ages.
It has been identified with the Hittite cult center Ankuwaš, although this remains a matter of debate.
The form "Angora" is preserved in the names of breeds of many different kinds of animals, and in the names of several locations in the US (see Angora).
History The region's history can be traced back to the Bronze Age Hattic ci
Arabic (, ; , or ) is a Semitic language spoken primarily across the Arab world.
Colloquial dialects vary significantly from MSA, impeding mutual intelligibility.
MSA is only acquired through formal education and is not spoken natively.
It is the language of literature, official documents, and formal written media.
In spoken form, MSA is used in formal contexts, news bulletins and for prayers.
This variety is the lingua franca of the Arab world and the liturgical language of Islam.
It is an official language of 26 states and 1 disputed territory, the third most after English and French.
It is also one of six official languages of the United Nations.
Spoken varieties are the usual medium of communication in all other domains.
They are not standardized and vary significantly, some of them being mutually unintelligible.
The International Organization for Standardization assigns language codes to 33 varieties of Arabic, including MSA.
Arabic vernaculars do not descend from MSA or Classical Arabic.
Arabic is traditionally written with the Arabic alphabet, a right-to-left abjad and the official script for MSA.
Colloquial varieties were not traditionally written; however, the emergence of social media has seen a significant increase in dialects written online.
Besides the Arabic alphabet, dialects are also often written in Latin script from left to right or in Hebrew characters (in Israel) with no standardized orthography.
Hassaniya is the only variety officially written in a Latin alphabet (in Senegal).; Maltese also uses a Latin script, though it is widely classified as distinct from Arabic dialects.
Classification Arabic is usually classified as a Central Semitic language.
Linguists still differ as to the best classification of Semitic language sub-groups.
The Semitic languages changed significantly between Proto-Semitic and the emergence of Central Semitic languages, particularly in grammar.
Innovations of the Central Semitic languages—all maintained in Arabic—include: The conversion of the suffix-conjugated stative formation (jalas-) into a past tense.
The conversion of the prefix-conjugated preterite-tense formation (yajlis-) into a present tense.
The elimination of other prefix-conjugated mood/aspect forms (e.g., a present tense formed by doubling the mi
Sir Alfred Joseph Hitchcock (13 August 1899 – 29 April 1980) was an English film director, screenwriter, producer and editor.
He is widely regarded as one of the most influential figures in the history of cinema.
In a career spanning six decades, he directed over 50 feature films, many of which are still widely watched and studied today.
Known as the "Master of Suspense", he became as well known as any of his actors thanks to his many interviews, his cameo roles in most of his films, and his hosting and producing the television anthology Alfred Hitchcock Presents (1955–65).
Hitchcock initially trained as a technical clerk and copywriter before entering the film industry in 1919 as a title card designer.
His directorial debut was the British-German silent film The Pleasure Garden (1925).
His first successful film, The Lodger: A Story of the London Fog (1927), helped to shape the thriller genre, and Blackmail (1929) was the first British "talkie".
By 1939, he had international recognition and producer David O.
Selznick persuaded him to move to Hollywood.
A string of successful films followed, including Rebecca (1940), Foreign Correspondent (1940), Suspicion (1941), Shadow of a Doubt (1943) and Notorious (1946).
He also received Oscar nominations for Lifeboat (1944), Spellbound (1945), Rear Window (1954) and Psycho (1960).
Hitchcock's other notable films include Rope (1948), Strangers on a Train (1951), Dial M for Murder (1954), To Catch a Thief (1955), The Trouble with Harry (1955), Vertigo (1958), North by Northwest (1959), The Birds (1963) and Marnie (1964), all of which were also financially successful and are highly regarded by film historians.
Hitchcock became an American citizen in 1955.
, nine of his films had been selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry, including his personal favourite, Shadow of a Doubt (1943).
Biography Early life: 1899–1919 Early childhood and education Alfred Joseph Hitchcock was born on 13 August 1899 in the flat above his parents'
Anacondas or water boas are a group of large snakes of the genus Eunectes.
They are found in tropical South America.
Four species are currently recognized.
Description Although the name applies to a group of snakes, it is often used to refer only to one species, in particular, the common or green anaconda (Eunectes murinus), which is the largest snake in the world by weight, and the second longest after the reticulated python.
Etymology The South American names anacauchoa and anacaona were suggested in an account by Peter Martyr d'Anghiera, but the idea of a South American origin was questioned by Henry Walter Bates who, in his travels in South America, failed to find any similar name in use.
The word anaconda is derived from the name of a snake from Ceylon (Sri Lanka) that John Ray described in Latin in his (1693) as .
Ray used a catalogue of snakes from the Leyden museum supplied by Dr.
Tancred Robinson, but the description of its habit was based on Andreas Cleyer who in 1684 described a gigantic snake that crushed large animals by coiling around their bodies and crushing their bones.
Henry Yule in his Hobson-Jobson notes that the word became more popular due to a piece of fiction published in 1768 in the Scots Magazine by a certain R.
Edwin that described a 'tiger' being crushed to death by an anaconda, when there actually never were any tigers in Sri Lanka.
Yule and Frank Wall noted that the snake was in fact a python and suggested a Tamil origin meaning elephant killer.
A Sinhalese origin was also suggested by Donald Ferguson who pointed out that the word ( lightning/large and stem/trunk) was used in Sri Lanka for the small whip snake (Ahaetulla pulverulenta) and somehow got misapplied to the python before myths were created.
The name commonly used for the anaconda in Brazil is sucuri, sucuriju or sucuriuba.
Altaic () is a controversial proposed language family that would include the Turkic, Mongolic and Tungusic language families and possibly also the Japonic and Koreanic languages.
The hypothetical language family has long been rejected by most comparative linguists, although it continues to be supported by a small but stable scholarly minority.
Speakers of the constituent languages are currently scattered over most of Asia north of 35° N and in some eastern parts of Europe, extending in longitude from the Balkan Peninsula to Japan.
The group is named after the Altai mountain range in the center of Asia.
It was widely accepted until the 1960s and is still listed in many encyclopedias and handbooks, and references to Altaic as a language family continue to percolate to modern sources through these older sources.
Since the 1950s, most comparative linguists have rejected the proposal, after supposed cognates were found not to be valid, hypothesized sound shifts were not found, and Turkic and Mongolic languages were found to be converging rather than diverging over the centuries.
The relationship between the Altaic languages is now generally accepted to be the result of a sprachbund rather than common ancestry, with the languages showing influence from prolonged contact.
The continued use of the term "Altaic" to refer to the various iterations of an Altaic theory, the "Altaic sprachbund" and infrequently as a general term for the region has resulted in confusion around the status of the Altaic hypothesis, with the end result being many Altaicists adopting the name "Transeurasian" for modifications of the family proposal to avoid confusion.
This confusion is compounded by literature which refers to Altaic as an accepted hypothesis, which historically was the case.
Altaic has maintained a limited degree of scholarly support, in contrast to some other early macrofamily proposals.
Continued research on Altaic is still being undertaken by a core group of academic linguists, but their research has not found wider support.
In particular it has support from the Institute of Linguistics of the Russian Academy of Sciences and remains influential as a substratum of Turanism, where a hypothetical common linguistic ancestor has been used in part as a basis for a multiethnic nationalist movement.
Earliest attestations The earliest attested expressions in Proto-Turkic are recorded in various Chinese sources.
Anna Dybo identifies in Shizi (330 BCE) and the Book of Han (111 CE) several dozen Proto-Turkic exotisms in Chinese Han transcriptions.
Lanhai Wei and Hui Li reconstruct the name of the Xiōngnú ruling house as PT *Alayundluğ /alajuntˈluγ/ 'piebald horse clan.' The earliest known texts in a Turkic language are the Orkhon inscriptions, 720–735 AD.
They were deciphered in 1893 by the Danish linguist Vilhelm Thomsen in a scholarly race with his rival, the German–Russian linguist Wilhelm Radloff.
Austrian German (), Austrian Standard German (ASG), Standard Austrian German (), Austrian High German (), or simply just Austrian (), is an official and standard variety of Standard High German written and spoken in Austria and Italian South Tyrol.
It has the highest sociolinguistic prestige locally, as it is the variation used in the media and for other formal situations.
In less formal situations, Austrians use Bavarian and Alemannic dialects, which are traditionally spoken but rarely written in Austria.
It has been formalized and standardized (in Austria) since publishing the Österreichisches Wörterbuch by the Austrian Ministry of Education, Science and Research in 1951.
At the time, the written standard was Oberdeutsche Schreibsprache (Upper German written language), which was highly influenced by the Bavarian and Alemannic dialects of Austria.
Another option was to create a new standard based on the Southern German dialects, as proposed by the linguist Johann Siegmund Popowitsch.
Instead they decided for pragmatic reasons to adopt the already-standardized chancellery language of Saxony (Sächsische Kanzleisprache or Meißner Kanzleideutsch), which was based on the administrative language of the non-Austrian area of Meißen and Dresden.
Austria High German (Hochdeutsch in Österreich, not to be confused with the Bavarian Austria German dialects) has the same geographic origin as the Swiss High German (Schweizer Hochdeutsch, not to be confused with the Alemannic Swiss German dialects).
The process of introducing the new written standard was led by Joseph von Sonnenfels.
Since 1951, the standardized form of Austrian German for official texts and schools has been defined by the ("Austrian Dictionary"), published under the authority of the Austrian Federal Ministry of Education, Arts and Culture.
Standard Austrian German The official Austrian dictionary, , prescribes grammatical and spelling rules that define the official language.
Austria adopted it as a signatory, along with Germany, Switzerland, and Liechtenstein, of an international memorandum of understanding () signed in Vienna in 1996.
The eszett or "sharp s" (ß) is used in Austria, as in Germany but unlike in Switzerland.
Because of German's pluricentric nature, German dialects in Austria should not be confused with the variety of Standard Austrian German spoken by most Austrians, which is distinct from that of Germany or Switzerland.
Distinctions in vocabulary persist, for example, in culinary terms, for which communi
Informally put, the axiom of choice says that given any collection of sets, each containing at least one element, it is possible to construct a new set by arbitrarily choosing one element from each set, even if the collection is infinite.
Formally, it states that for every indexed family of nonempty sets, there exists an indexed set such that for every .
The axiom of choice was formulated in 1904 by Ernst Zermelo in order to formalize his proof of the well-ordering theorem.
An illustrative example is sets picked from the natural numbers.
From such sets, one may always select the smallest number, e.g.
given the sets {{4, 5, 6}, {10, 12}, {1, 400, 617, 8000}}, the set containing each smallest element is {4, 10, 1}.
In this case, "select the smallest number" is a choice function.
Even if infinitely many sets were collected from the natural numbers, it will always be possible to choose the smallest element from each set to produce a set.
That is, the choice function provides the set of chosen elements.
However, no definite choice function is known for the collection of all non-empty subsets of the real numbers.
In that case, the axiom of choice must be invoked.
Bertrand Russell coined an analogy: for any (even infinite) collection of pairs of shoes, one can pick out the left shoe from each pair to obtain an appropriate collection (i.e.
set) of shoes; this makes it possible to define a choice function directly.
Although originally controversial, the axiom of choice is now used without reservation by most mathematicians, and it is included in the standard form of axiomatic set theory, Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory with the axiom of choice (ZFC).
One motivation for this use is that a number of generally accepted mathematical results, such as Tychonoff's theorem, require the axiom of choice for their proofs.
Contemporary set theorists also study axioms that are not compatible with the axiom of choice, such as the axiom of determinacy.
Statement A choice function (also called selector or selection) is a f
Attila ( or ; ), frequently called Attila the Hun, was the ruler of the Huns from 434 until his death, in March 453.
He was also the leader of an empire consisting of Huns, Ostrogoths, Alans, and Bulgars, among others, in Central and Eastern Europe.
During his reign, he was one of the most feared enemies of the Western and Eastern Roman Empires.
He crossed the Danube twice and plundered the Balkans but was unable to take Constantinople.
In 441, he led an invasion of the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) Empire, the success of which emboldened him to invade the West.
He subsequently invaded Italy, devastating the northern provinces, but was unable to take Rome.
He planned for further campaigns against the Romans but died in 453.
After Attila's death, his close adviser, Ardaric of the Gepids, led a Germanic revolt against Hunnic rule, after which the Hunnic Empire quickly collapsed.
Attila lived on as a character in Germanic heroic legend.
Etymology Many scholars have argued that the name Attila derives from East Germanic origin; Attila is formed from the Gothic or Gepidic noun atta, "father", by means of the diminutive suffix -ila, meaning "little father", compare Wulfila from wulfs "wolf" and -ila, i.e.
Maenchen-Helfen notes that this derivation of the name "offers neither phonetic nor semantic difficulties", and Gerhard Doerfer notes that the name is simply correct Gothic.
Alexander Savelyev and Choongwon Jeong (2020) similarly state that Attila's name "must have been Gothic in origin." The name has sometimes been interpreted as a Germanization of a name of Hunnic origin.
Other scholars have argued for a Turkic origin of the name.
The stressed back syllabic til assimilated the front member es, so it became *as.
Mikkola connected it with Turkic āt (name, fame).
As another Turkic possibility, H.
Althof (1902) considered it was related to Turkish atli (horseman, cavalier), or Turkish at (horse) and dil (tongue).
Maenchen-Helfen argues that Pritsak's derivation is "ingenious but for many reasons unacceptable", while dismissing Mikkola's as "too farfetched to be taken seriously".
Snædal similarly notes that none of these proposals has achieved wide acceptance.
The Aegean Sea is an elongated embayment of the Mediterranean Sea between Europe and Asia.
It is located between the Balkans and Anatolia, and covers an area of some .
In the north, the Aegean is connected to the Marmara Sea, which in turn connects to the Black Sea, by the straits of the Dardanelles and the Bosphorus, respectively.
The Aegean Islands are located within the sea and some bound it on its southern periphery, including Crete and Rhodes.
The sea reaches a maximum depth of to the west of Karpathos.
The Thracian Sea and the Sea of Crete are main subdivisions of the Aegean Sea.
The Aegean Islands can be divided into several island groups, including the Dodecanese, the Cyclades, the Sporades, the Saronic islands and the North Aegean Islands, as well as Crete and its surrounding islands.
The Dodecanese, located to the southeast, includes the islands of Rhodes, Kos, and Patmos; the islands of Delos and Naxos are within the Cyclades to the south of the sea.
Lesbos is part of the North Aegean Islands.
Euboea, the second-largest island in Greece, is located in the Aegean, despite being administered as part of Central Greece.
Nine out of twelve of the Administrative regions of Greece border the sea, along with the Turkish provinces of Edirne, Çanakkale, Balıkesir, Izmir, Aydın and Muğla to the east of the sea.
Various Turkish islands in the sea are Imbros, Tenedos, Cunda Island, and the Foça Islands.
The Aegean Sea has been historically important, especially in regards to the civilization of Ancient Greece, who inhabited the area around the coast of the Aegean and the Aegean islands.
The Aegean islands facilitated contact between the people of the area and between Europe and Asia.
Along with the Greeks, Thracians lived among the northern coast.
The Romans conquered the area under the Roman Empire, and later the Byzantine Empire held it against advances by the First Bulgarian Empire.
The Fourth Crusade weakened Byzantine control of the area, and it was eventually conquered by the Ottoman Empire, with the exception of Crete, which was a Venetian colony until 1669.
The Ottoman Empire held a presence over the sea for over 500 years, until it was replaced by modern Turkey.
Of particular interest are the richly coloured sediments in the region of the islands of Santorini and Milos, in the south Aegean.
Notable cities on the Aegean coastline include Athens, Thessaloniki, Volos, Kavala and Heraklion in Greece, and İzmir and Bodrum in Turkey.
A number of issues concerning sovereignty within the Aegean Sea are disputed between Greece and Turkey.
The Aegean dispute has had a large effect on Greek-Turkish relations since the 1970s.
Issues include the delimitation of territoria
A Clockwork Orange is a dystopian satirical black comedy novel by English writer Anthony Burgess, published in 1962.
It is set in a near-future society that has a youth subculture of extreme violence.
The teenage protagonist, Alex, narrates his violent exploits and his experiences with state authorities intent on reforming him.
The book is partially written in a Russian-influenced argot called "Nadsat", which takes its name from the Russian suffix that is equivalent to '-teen' in English.
According to Burgess, the novel was a jeu d'esprit written in just three weeks.
The original manuscript of the book has been kept at McMaster University's William Ready Division of Archives and Research Collections in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada since the institution purchased the documents in 1971.
It is considered one of the most influential dystopian books.
In 2022, the novel was included on the "Big Jubilee Read" list of 70 books by Commonwealth authors selected to celebrate the Platinum Jubilee of Elizabeth II.
His friends ("droogs" in the novel's Anglo-Russian slang, "Nadsat") and fellow gang members are Dim, a slow-witted bruiser, who is the gang's muscle; Georgie, an ambitious second-in-command; and Pete, who mostly plays along as the droogs indulge their taste for "ultra-violence" (random, violent mayhem).
Characterised as a sociopath and hardened juvenile delinquent, Alex is also intelligent, quick-witted, and enjoys classical music; he is particularly fond of Beethoven, whom he calls "Lovely Ludwig Van".
At the Korova, Alex strikes Dim for his crude response to a woman's singing of an operatic passage, and strains within the gang become apparent.
At home in his parents' flat, Alex plays classical music at top volume, which he describes as giving him orgasmic bliss before falling asleep.
Alex feigns illness to his parents to stay out of school the next day.
Located in the Dutch province of North Holland, Amsterdam is colloquially referred to as the "Venice of the North", for its large number of canals, now designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Amsterdam was the leading centre for finance and trade, as well as a hub of production of secular art.
The Amsterdam Stock Exchange, founded in 1602, is considered the oldest "modern" securities market stock exchange in the world.
The Museum of Work (Arbetets museum) is a museum located in Norrköping, Sweden.
The former textile factory Holmens Bruk (sv) operated in the building from 1917 to 1962.
The museum documents work and everyday life by collecting personal stories about people's professional lives from both the past and the present.
The museum's archive contain material from memory collections and documentation projects.
Since 2009, the museum also houses the EWK – Center for Political Illustration Art, which is based on work of the satirist Ewert Karlsson (1918–2004).
For decades he was frequently published in the Swedish tabloid, Aftonbladet.
Overview The museum is a national central museum with the task of preserving and telling about work and everyday life.
It has, among other things, exhibitions on the terms and conditions of the work and the history of the industrial society.
The museum is also known to highlight gender perspective in their exhibitions.
The work museum documents work and everyday life by collecting personal stories, including people's professional life from both the past and present.
In the museum's archive, there is a rich material of memory collections and documentation projects – over 2600 interviews, stories and photodocumentations have been collected since the museum opened.
Exhibitions The Museum of Work shows exhibitions going on over several years, but also shorter exhibitions – including several photo exhibitions on themes that can be linked to work and everyday life.
The history of Alva The history of Alva Karlsson is the only exhibition in the museum that is permanent.
The exhibition connects to the museum's building and its history as part of the textile industry in Norrköping.
Alva worked as a rollers between the years 1927 – 1962.
It is an exhibition that investigates what a sustainable society is will be part of the museum's exhibitions until 2019.
The exhibition consists of materials that are designed based on conversations between young people and researchers around Sweden.
The exhibition addresses themes such as work, environment and everyday life.
Audi AG () is a German automotive manufacturer of luxury vehicles headquartered in Ingolstadt, Bavaria, Germany.
A subsidiary of the Volkswagen Group, Audi produces vehicles in nine production facilities worldwide.
Two other manufacturers (DKW and Wanderer) also contributed to the foundation of Auto Union in 1932.
The modern Audi era began in the 1960s, when Auto Union was acquired by Volkswagen from Daimler-Benz.
After relaunching the Audi brand with the 1965 introduction of the Audi F103 series, Volkswagen merged Auto Union with NSU Motorenwerke in 1969, thus creating the present-day form of the company.
The company name is based on the Latin translation of the surname of the founder, August Horch.
, meaning "listen", becomes in Latin.
The four rings of the Audi logo each represent one of four car companies that banded together to create Audi's predecessor company, Auto Union.
Audi's slogan is , which is translated as "Progress through Technology".
Audi, along with German brands BMW and Mercedes-Benz, is among the best-selling luxury automobile brands in the world.
History Birth of the company and its name Automobile company Wanderer was originally established in 1885, later becoming a branch of Audi AG.
Another company, NSU, which also later merged into Audi, was founded during this time, and later supplied the chassis for Gottlieb Daimler's four-wheeler.
On 14 November 1899, August Horch (1868–1951) established the company A.
in the Ehrenfeld district of Cologne.
In 1902, he moved with his company to Reichenbach im Vogtland.
On 10 May 1904, he founded the August Horch & Cie.
Motorwagenwerke AG, a joint-stock company in Zwickau (State of Saxony).
After troubles with Horch chief financial officer, August Horch left Motorwagenwerke and founded in Zwickau on 16 July 1909, his second company, the August Horch Automobilwerke GmbH.
His former partners sued him for trademark infringement.
The German Reichsgericht (Supreme Court) in Leipzig, eventually determined that the Horch brand belonged to his former company.
Since August Horch was prohibited from using "Horch" as a trade name in his new car business, he called a meeting with close business friends, Paul and Franz Fikentscher from Zwickau.
At the apartment of Franz Fikentscher, they discussed how to come up with a new name for the company.
During this meeting, Franz's son was quietly studying Latin in a corner of the room.
wouldn't it be a good idea to call it audi instead of horch?" "Horch!" in German means "Hark!" or "hear", which is "Audi" in the singular imperative form of "audire" – "to listen" – in Latin.
An aircraft (: aircraft) is a vehicle that is able to fly by gaining support from the air.
Common examples of aircraft include airplanes, helicopters, airships (including blimps), gliders, paramotors, and hot air balloons.
The human activity that surrounds aircraft is called aviation.
The science of aviation, including designing and building aircraft, is called aeronautics.
Crewed aircraft are flown by an onboard pilot, whereas unmanned aerial vehicles may be remotely controlled or self-controlled by onboard computers.
Aircraft may be classified by different criteria, such as lift type, aircraft propulsion (if any), usage and others.
Consequently, the history of aircraft can be divided into five eras: Pioneers of flight, from the earliest experiments to 1914.
Methods of lift Lighter than air – aerostats Aerostats use buoyancy to float in the air in much the same way that ships float on the water.
They are characterized by one or more large cells or canopies, filled with a relatively low-density gas such as helium, hydrogen, or hot air, which is less dense than the surrounding air.
When the weight of this is added to the weight of the aircraft structure, it adds up to the same weight as the air that the craft displaces.
A balloon was originally any aerostat, while the term airship was used for large, powered aircraft designs — usually fixed-wing.
In 1919, Frederick Handley Page was reported as referring to "ships of the air," with smaller passenger types as "Air yachts." In the 1930s, large intercontinental flying boats were also sometimes referred to as "ships of the air" or "flying-ships".
— though none had yet been built.
The advent of powered balloons, called dirigible balloons, and later of rigid hulls allowing a great increase in size, began to change the way these words were used.
Huge powered aerostats, characterized by a rigid outer framework and separate aerodynamic skin surrounding the gas bags, were produced, the Zeppelins being the largest and most famous.
There were still no fixed-wing aircraft or non-rigid ba
Alfred Bernhard Nobel ( , ; 21 October 1833 – 10 December 1896) was a Swedish chemist, engineer, inventor, businessman, and philanthropist.
He is known for creating dynamite as well as having bequeathed his fortune to establish the Nobel Prize.
He also made several important contributions to science, holding 355 patents in his lifetime.
Nobel's most famous invention was dynamite, an explosive using nitroglycerin; it was patented in 1867.
He embarked on many business ventures with his family, most notably owning the company Bofors, which was an iron and steel producer that he had developed into a major manufacturer of cannons and other armaments.
Nobel was later inspired to donate his fortune to the Nobel Prize institution, which would annually recognize those who "conferred the greatest benefit to humankind".
The synthetic element nobelium was named after him, and his name and legacy also survives in companies such as Dynamit Nobel and AkzoNobel, which descend from mergers with companies he founded.
He was the third son of Immanuel Nobel (1801–1872), an inventor and engineer, and Karolina Andriette Nobel (née Ahlsell 1805–1889).
The couple married in 1827 and had eight children.
The family was impoverished and only Alfred and his three brothers survived beyond childhood.
Through his father, Alfred Nobel was a descendant of the Swedish scientist Olaus Rudbeck (1630–1702), and in his turn, the boy was interested in engineering, particularly explosives, learning the basic principles from his father at a young age.
Alfred Nobel's interest in technology was inherited from his father, an alumnus of Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm.Following various business failures caused by the loss of some barges of building material, Immanuel Nobel was forced into bankruptcy, Nobel's father moved to Saint Petersburg, Russia, and grew successful there as a manufacturer of machine tools and explosives.
He invented the veneer lathe (which made possible the production of modern plywood) and started work on the torpedo.
For 18 months, from 1841 to 1842, Nobel went to the only school he ever attended as a child, in Stockholm.
Nobel gained proficiency in Swedish, French, Russian, English, German, and Italian.
Alexander Graham Bell (, born Alexander Bell; March 3, 1847 – August 2, 1922) was a Scottish-born inventor, scientist and engineer who is credited with patenting the first practical telephone.
He also co-founded the American Telephone and Telegraph Company (AT&T) in 1885.
Bell's father, grandfather, and brother had all been associated with work on elocution and speech, and both his mother and wife were deaf; profoundly influencing Bell's life's work.
patent for the telephone, on March 7, 1876.
Bell considered his invention an intrusion on his real work as a scientist and refused to have a telephone in his study.
Bell also had a strong influence on the National Geographic Society and its magazine while serving as the second president from January 7, 1898, until 1903.
Beyond his work in engineering, Bell had a deep interest in the emerging science of heredity.
His father was Alexander Melville Bell, a phonetician, and his mother was Eliza Grace Bell (née Symonds).
Born as just "Alexander Bell", at age 10, he made a plea to his father to have a middle name like his two brothers.
For his 11th birthday, his father acquiesced and allowed him to adopt the name "Graham", chosen out of respect for Alexander Graham, a Canadian being treated by his father who had become a family friend.
To close relatives and friends he remained "Aleck".
Bell and his siblings attended a Presbyterian Church in their youth.
First invention As a child, Bell displayed a curiosity about his world; he gathered botanical specimens and ran experiments at an early age.
His best friend was Ben Herdman, a neighbour whose family operated a flour mill.
In return, Ben's father John Herdman gave both boys the run of a small workshop in which to "invent".
From his early years, Bell showed a sensitive nature and a talent for art, poetry, and music that was encouraged by his mother.
With no formal training, he mastered the piano and became the family's pianist.
Anatolia, also known as Asia Minor, is a large peninsula in West Asia and is the western-most extension of continental Asia.
The land mass of Anatolia constitutes most of the territory of contemporary Turkey.
Geographically, the Anatolian region is bounded by the Turkish Straits to the north-west, the Black Sea to the north, the Armenian Highlands to the east, the Mediterranean Sea to the south, and the Aegean Sea to the west.
Topographically, the Sea of Marmara connects the Black Sea with the Aegean Sea through the Bosporus strait and the Dardanelles strait, and separates Anatolia from Thrace in the Balkan peninsula of Southeastern Europe.
The eastern border of Anatolia is a line between the Gulf of Alexandretta and the Black Sea, bounded by the Armenian Highlands to the east and Mesopotamia to the south-east, thus Anatolia comprises approximately the western two-thirds of the Asian territory of Turkey.
The ancient Anatolian peoples spoke the now-extinct Anatolian languages of the Indo-European language family, which were largely replaced by the Greek language during classical antiquity as well as during the Hellenistic, Roman, and Byzantine periods.
The major Anatolian languages included Hittite, Luwian, and Lydian, while other, poorly attested local languages included Phrygian and Mysian.
Ancient peoples in the region included Galatians, Hurrians, Assyrians, Hattians, Cimmerians, as well as Ionian, Dorian, and Aeolic Greeks.
However, various non-Turkic languages continue to be spoken by minorities in Anatolia, including Kurdish, Neo-Aramaic, Armenian, North Caucasian languages, Laz, Georgian, and Greek.
Geography Traditionally, Anatolia is considered to extend in the east to an indefinite line running from the Gulf of Alexandretta to the Black Sea, coterminous with the Anatolian Plateau.
This traditional geographical definition is used, for example, in the latest edition of Merriam-Webster's Geographical Dictionary.
To the southeast, it is bounded by the ranges that separate it from the Orontes valley in Syria and the Mesopotamian plain.
Following the Armenian genocide, Western Armenia was renamed the Eastern Anatolia Region by the newly established Turkish government.
is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Cupertino, California.
, Apple is the fourth-largest personal computer vendor by unit sales; the largest manufacturing company by revenue; and the second-largest mobile phone manufacturer in the world.
It is considered one of the Big Five American information technology companies, alongside Alphabet (parent company of Google), Amazon, Meta Platforms, and Microsoft.
Apple was founded as Apple Computer Company on April 1, 1976, by Steve Wozniak, Steve Jobs and Ronald Wayne to develop and sell Wozniak's Apple I personal computer.
It was incorporated by Jobs and Wozniak as Apple Computer, Inc.
The company's second computer, the Apple II, became a best seller and one of the first mass-produced microcomputers.
Apple went public in 1980 to instant financial success.
The company developed computers featuring innovative graphical user interfaces, including the 1984 original Macintosh, announced that year in a critically acclaimed advertisement called "1984".
By 1985, the high cost of its products, and power struggles between executives, caused problems.
As the market for personal computers expanded and evolved throughout the 1990s, Apple lost considerable market share to the lower-priced duopoly of the Microsoft Windows operating system on Intel-powered PC clones (also known as "Wintel").
In 1997, weeks away from bankruptcy, the company bought NeXT to resolve Apple's unsuccessful operating system strategy and entice Jobs back to the company.
Over the next decade, Jobs guided Apple back to profitability through a number of tactics including introducing the iMac, iPod, iPhone and iPad to critical acclaim, launching the "Think different" campaign and other memorable advertising campaigns, opening the Apple Store retail chain, and acquiring numerous companies to broaden the company's product portfolio.
When Jobs resigned in 2011 for health reasons, and died two months later, he was succeeded as CEO by Tim Cook.
Apple became the first publicly traded U.S.
company to be valued at over $1 trillion in August 2018, then at $2 trillion in August 2020, and at $3 trillion in January 2022.
In June 2023, it was valued at just over $3 trillion.
Nevertheless, the company has a large following and enjoys a high level of brand loyalty.
It has also been consistently ranked as one of the world's most valuable brands.
History 1976–1980: Founding and incorporation Apple Computer Company was founded on April 1, 1976, by Steve Jobs, Steve Woz
Aberdeenshire (; ) is one of the 32 council areas of Scotland.
It takes its name from the County of Aberdeen, which has substantially different boundaries.
The county boundaries are officially used for a few purposes, namely land registration and lieutenancy.
Traditionally, it has depended economically on the primary sector (agriculture, fishing, and forestry) and related processing industries.
Over the last 40 years, the development of the oil and gas industry and associated service sector has broadened Aberdeenshire's economic base, and contributed to a rapid population growth of some 50% since 1975.
Its land represents 8% of Scotland's overall territory.
History Aberdeenshire has a rich prehistoric and historical heritage.
It is the locus of a large number of Neolithic and Bronze Age archaeological sites, including Longman Hill, Kempstone Hill, Catto Long Barrow and Cairn Lee.
The area was settled in the Bronze Age by the Beaker culture, who arrived from the south around 2000–1800 BC.
Stone circles and cairns were constructed predominantly in this era.
In the Iron Age, hill forts were built.
The Picts were the next documented inhabitants of the area and were no later than 800–900 AD.
The Romans also were in the area during this period, as they left signs at Kintore.
Christianity influenced the inhabitants early on, and there were Celtic monasteries at Old Deer and Monymusk.
Since medieval times, there have been many traditional paths that crossed the Mounth (a spur of mountainous land that extends from the higher inland range to the North Sea slightly north of Stonehaven) through present-day Aberdeenshire from the Scottish Lowlands to the Highlands.
Some of the most well-known and historically important trackways are the Causey Mounth and Elsick Mounth.
Aberdeenshire played an important role in the fighting between the Scottish clans.
Clan MacBeth and the Clan Canmore were two of the larger clans.
Macbeth fell at Lumphanan in 1057.
During the Anglo-Norman penetration, other families arrive, such as House of Balliol, Clan Bruce, and Clan Cumming (Comyn).
Aztlan Underground is a band from Los Angeles, California that combines Hip-Hop, Punk Rock, Jazz, and electronic music with Chicano and Native American themes, and indigenous instrumentation.
They are often cited as progenitors of Chicano rap.
Background The band traces its roots to the late-1980s hardcore scene in the Eastside of Los Angeles.
They have played rapcore, with elements of punk, hip hop, rock, funk, jazz, indigenous music, and spoken word.
Indigenous drums, flutes, and rattles are also commonly used in their music.
Their lyrics often address the family and economic issues faced by the Chicano community, and they have been noted as activists for that community.
The band has been mentioned or featured in various newspapers and magazines: the Vancouver Sun, New Times, BLU Magazine (an underground hip hop magazine), BAM Magazine, La Banda Elastica Magazine, and the Los Angeles Times calendar section.
The band is also the subject of a chapter in the book It's Not About a Salary, by Brian Cross.
Aztlan Underground remains active in the community, lending their voice to annual events such as The Farce of July, and the recent movement to recognize Indigenous People's Day in Los Angeles and beyond.
In addition to forming their own label, Xicano Records and Film, Aztlan Underground were signed to the Basque record label Esan Ozenki in 1999 which enabled them to tour Spain extensively and perform in France and Portugal.
Aztlan Underground have also performed in Canada, Australia, and Venezuela.
The band has been recognized for their music with nominations in the New Times 1998 "Best Latin Influenced" category, the BAM Magazine 1999 "Best Rock en Español" category, and the LA Weekly 1999 "Best Hip Hop" category.
Decades of political controversy over slavery were brought to a head by the victory in the 1860 U.S.
presidential election of Abraham Lincoln, who opposed slavery's expansion into the western territories.
Seven southern slave states responded to Lincoln's victory by seceding from the United States and forming the Confederacy.
forts and other federal assets within their borders.
Four years of intense combat, mostly in the South, ensued.
During 1861–1862 in the Western Theater, the Union made significant permanent gainsthough in the Eastern Theater the conflict was inconclusive.
In 1863, Confederate General Robert E.
Western successes led to General Ulysses S.
Grant's command of all Union armies in 1864.
Inflicting an ever-tightening naval blockade of Confederate ports, the Union marshaled resources and manpower to attack the Confederacy from all directions.
This led to the fall of Atlanta in 1864 to Union General William Tecumseh Sherman, followed by his March to the Sea.
A wave of Confederate surrenders followed.
On April 14, just five days after Lee's surrender, Lincoln was assassinated.
Small confederate ground forces continued surrendering past the May 26 s
His works explore the relationship between artistic expression, advertising, and celebrity culture that flourished by the 1960s, and span a variety of media, including painting, silkscreening, photography, film, and sculpture.
Some of his best-known works include the silkscreen paintings Campbell's Soup Cans (1962) and Marilyn Diptych (1962), the experimental films Empire (1964) and Chelsea Girls (1966), and the multimedia events known as the Exploding Plastic Inevitable (1966–67).
After exhibiting his work in several galleries in the late 1950s, he began to receive recognition as an influential and controversial artist.
His New York studio, The Factory, became a well-known gathering place that brought together distinguished intellectuals, drag queens, playwrights, Bohemian street people, Hollywood celebrities, and wealthy patrons.
In the late 1960s, he managed and produced the experimental rock band The Velvet Underground and founded Interview magazine.
He lived openly as a gay man before the gay liberation movement.
In June 1968, he was almost killed by radical feminist Valerie Solanas, who shot him inside his studio.
Many of his creations are very collectible and highly valuable.
His works include some of the most expensive paintings ever sold.
In 2013, a 1963 serigraph titled Silver Car Crash (Double Disaster) sold for $105 million.
In 2022, Shot Sage Blue Marilyn (1964) sold for $195 million, which is the most expensive work of art sold at auction by an American artist.
Alp Arslan, born Muhammad bin Dawud Chaghri, was the second sultan of the Seljuk Empire and great-grandson of Seljuk, the eponymous founder of the dynasty.
Muhammad bin Dawud Chaghri's military prowess and fighting skills earned him the nickname Alp Arslan, which means "Heroic Lion" in Turkish.
Early life Alp Arslan was the son of Chaghri and nephew of Tughril, the founding sultans of the Seljuk Empire.
He was the father of numerous children, including Malik-Shah I and Tutush I.
It is unclear who the mother or mothers of his children were.
He was known to have been married at least twice.
His wives included the widow of his uncle Tughril, a Kara-Khanid princess known as Aka or Seferiye Khatun, and the daughter or niece of Bagrat IV of Georgia (who would later marry his vizier, Nizam al-Mulk).
One of Seljuk's other sons was the Turkic chieftain Arslan Isra'il, whose son, Kutalmish, contested his nephew's succession to the sultanate.
Alp Arslan's younger brothers Suleiman ibn Chaghri and Qavurt were his rivals.
Kilij Arslan, the son and successor of Suleiman ibn Kutalmish (Kutalmish's son, who would later become Sultan of Rûm), was a major opponent of the Franks during the First Crusade and the Crusade of 1101.
Physical appearance and personality Contemporary descriptions portray Alp Arslan as "very awe-inspiring, dominating," a "greatformed one, elegant of stature.
He had long, thin whiskers, which he used to knot up when shooting arrows.
And they say his arrow never went astray....
From the top button of his hat to the end of his moustaches it was two yards" Muslim sources show Alp Arslan as fanatically pious but just.
His vizier, Nizam al-Mulk, described the young sultan: Early career Alp Arslan accompanied his uncle Tughril on campaigns in the south against the Fatimids while his father Chaghri remained in Khorasan.
Upon Alp Arslan's return to Khorasan, he began his work in administration at his father's suggestion.
While there, his father introduced him to Nizam al-Mulk, one of the most eminent statesmen in early Muslim history and Alp Arslan's future vizier.
After the death of his father, Alp Arslan succeeded him as governor of Khorasan in 1059.
His uncle Tughril died in 1063 and designated his successor as Suleiman, Arslan's infant brother.
The American Film Institute (AFI) is an American nonprofit film organization that educates filmmakers and honors the heritage of the motion picture arts in the United States.
AFI is supported by private funding and public membership fees.
Leadership The institute is composed of leaders from the film, entertainment, business, and academic communities.
The board of trustees is chaired by Kathleen Kennedy and the board of directors chaired by Robert A.
Daly guide the organization, which is led by President and CEO, film historian Bob Gazzale.
Prior leaders were founding director George Stevens Jr.
(from the organization's inception in 1967 until 1980) and Jean Picker Firstenberg (from 1980 to 2007).
History The American Film Institute was founded by a 1965 presidential mandate announced in the Rose Garden of the White House by Lyndon B.
Johnson—to establish a national arts organization to preserve the legacy of American film heritage, educate the next generation of filmmakers, and honor the artists and their work.
Two years later, in 1967, AFI was established, supported by the National Endowment for the Arts, the Motion Picture Association of America and the Ford Foundation.
The original 22-member Board of Trustees included actor Gregory Peck as chairman and actor Sidney Poitier as vice-chairman, as well as director Francis Ford Coppola, film historian Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., lobbyist Jack Valenti, and other representatives from the arts and academia.
The institute established a training program for filmmakers known then as the Center for Advanced Film Studies.
Also created in the early years were a repertory film exhibition program at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and the AFI Catalog of Feature Films — a scholarly source for American film history.
The institute moved to its current eight-acre Hollywood campus in 1981.
The film training program grew into the AFI Conservatory, an accredited graduate school.
In 2017, then-aspiring filmmaker Ilana Bar-Din Giannini claimed that the AFI expelled her after she accused Dezso Magyar of sexually harassing her in the early 1980s.
was a Japanese filmmaker and painter who directed 30 films in a career spanning over five decades.
He is widely regarded as one of the greatest and most influential filmmakers in the history of cinema.
Kurosawa displayed a bold, dynamic style, strongly influenced by Western cinema yet distinct from it; he was involved with all aspects of film production.
Kurosawa entered the Japanese film industry in 1936, following a brief stint as a painter.
The two men would go on to collaborate on another fifteen films.
Rashomon (1950), which premiered in Tokyo, became the surprise winner of the Golden Lion at the 1951 Venice Film Festival.
The commercial and critical success of that film opened up Western film markets for the first time to the products of the Japanese film industry, which in turn led to international recognition for other Japanese filmmakers.
Kurosawa directed approximately one film per year throughout the 1950s and early 1960s, including a number of highly regarded (and often adapted) films, such as (1952), Seven Samurai (1954), Throne of Blood (1957), Yojimbo (1961) and High and Low (1963).
After the 1960s he became much less prolific; even so, his later work—including two of his final films, (1980) and (1985)—continued to receive great acclaim.
His career has been honored by many retrospectives, critical studies and biographies in both print and video, and by releases in many consumer media.
His father Isamu (1864–1948), a member of a samurai family from Akita Prefecture, worked as the director of the Army's Physical Education Institute's lower secondary school, while his mother Shima (1870–1952) came from a merchant's family living in Osaka.
Akira was the eighth and youngest child of the moderately wealthy family, with two of his siblings already grown up at the time of his birth and one deceased, leaving Kurosawa to grow up with three sisters and a brother.
In addition to promoting physical exercise, Isamu Kurosawa was open to Western traditions and considered theatre and motion pictures to have educational merit.
Ancient Egypt was a civilization in Northeast Africa situated in the Nile Valley.
Ancient Egyptian civilization followed prehistoric Egypt and coalesced around 3100BC (according to conventional Egyptian chronology) with the political unification of Upper and Lower Egypt under Menes (often identified with Narmer).
During the course of its history, Egypt was invaded or conquered by a number of foreign powers, including the Hyksos, the Nubians, the Assyrians, the Achaemenid Persians, and the Macedonians under Alexander the Great.
The predictable flooding and controlled irrigation of the fertile valley produced surplus crops, which supported a more dense population, and social development and culture.
With resources to spare, the administration sponsored mineral exploitation of the valley and surrounding desert regions, the early development of an independent writing system, the organization of collective construction and agricultural projects, trade with surrounding regions, and a military intended to assert Egyptian dominance.
Motivating and organizing these activities was a bureaucracy of elite scribes, religious leaders, and administrators under the control of a pharaoh, who ensured the cooperation and unity of the Egyptian people in the context of an elaborate system of religious beliefs.
Ancient Egypt has left a lasting legacy.
Its art and architecture were widely copied, and its antiquities were carried off to far corners of the world.
Its monumental ruins have inspired the imaginations of travelers and writers for millennia.
A newfound respect for antiquities and excavations in the early modern period by Europeans and Egyptians has led to the scientific investigation of Egyptian civilization and a greater appreciation of its cul
Analog Brothers were an experimental hip hop band featuring Tracy "Ice-T" Marrow (Ice Oscillator) on keyboards, drums and vocals, Keith "Kool Keith" Thornton (Keith Korg) on bass, strings and vocals, Marc Live (Marc Moog) on drums, violins and vocals, Christopher "Black Silver" Rodgers (Silver Synth) on synthesizer, lazar bell and vocals, and Rex Colonel "Pimpin' Rex" Doby Jr.
(Rex Roland JX3P) on keyboards, vocals and production.
Cisco from S.M., Synth-A-Size Sisters and Teflon.
While the group only recorded one album together as the Analog Brothers, a few bootlegs of its live concert performances, including freestyles with original lyrics, have occasionally surfaced online.
After Pimp to Eat, the Analog Brothers continued performing together in various line ups.
Kool Keith and Marc Live joined with Jacky Jasper to release two albums as KHM.
Marc Live rapped with Ice-T's group SMG.
Marc also formed a group with Black Silver called Live Black, but while five of their tracks were released on a demo CD sold at concerts, Live Black's first album has yet to be released.
In 2008, Ice-T and Black Silver toured together as Black Ice, and released an album together called Urban Legends.
In 2013, Black Silver and newest member to Analog Brothers, Kiew Kurzweil (Kiew Nikon of Kinetic) collaborated on the joint album called Slang Banging (Return to Analog) with production by Junkadelic Music.
In addition to all this, the Analog Brothers continue to make frequent appearances on each other's solo albums.
(single), Ground Control Records/Nu Gruv 2000 - Pimp to Eat (LP), Ground Control Records/Mello Music Group 2014 - Slang Banging (Return to Analog), Junkadelic Music References External links Kool Keith's Site Ultrakeith Analog Brothers at Discogs Ice-T American hip hop groups
Motor neuron diseases or motor neurone diseases (MNDs) are a group of rare neurodegenerative disorders that selectively affect motor neurons, the cells which control voluntary muscles of the body.
They include amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), progressive bulbar palsy (PBP), pseudobulbar palsy, progressive muscular atrophy (PMA), primary lateral sclerosis (PLS), spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and monomelic amyotrophy (MMA), as well as some rarer variants resembling ALS.
Motor neuron diseases affect both children and adults.
While each motor neuron disease affects patients differently, they all cause movement-related symptoms, mainly muscle weakness.
Most of these diseases seem to occur randomly without known causes, but some forms are inherited.
Studies into these inherited forms have led to discoveries of various genes (e.g.
Symptoms of motor neuron diseases can be first seen at birth or can come on slowly later in life.
Most of these diseases worsen over time; while some, such as ALS, shorten one's life expectancy, others do not.
Currently, there are no approved treatments for the majority of motor neuron disorders, and care is mostly symptomatic.
Signs and symptoms Signs and symptoms depend on the specific disease, but motor neuron diseases typically manifest as a group of movement-related symptoms.
They come on slowly, and worsen over the course of more than three months.
Various patterns of muscle weakness are seen, and muscle cramps and spasms may occur.
One can have difficulty breathing with climbing stairs (exertion), difficulty breathing when lying down (orthopnea), or even respiratory failure if breathing muscles become involved.
Sensation, or the ability to feel, is typically not affected.
pseudobulbar affect) and cognitive and behavioural changes (e.g.
There can be lower motor neuron findings (e.g.
muscle wasting, muscle twitching), upper motor neuron findings (e.g.
brisk reflexes, Babinski reflex, Hoffman's reflex, increased muscle tone), or both.
Motor neuron diseases are seen both in children and adults.
Those that affect children tend to be inherited or familial, and their symptoms are either present at birth or appear before learning to walk.
Those that affect adults tend to appear after age 40.
The clinical course depends on the specific disease, but most progress or worsen over the course of months.
ALS), while others are not (e.g.
Patterns of weakness Various patterns of muscle weakness occur in different motor neuron diseases.
Weakness can be symmetric or asymmetric, and it can occur in body parts that are distal, proximal, or both.
An abjad (, ; also abgad) is a writing system in which only consonants are represented, leaving vowel sounds to be inferred by the reader.
This contrasts with alphabets, which provide graphemes for both consonants and vowels.
The term was introduced in 1990 by Peter T.
Impure abjads represent vowels with either optional diacritics, a limited number of distinct vowel glyphs, or both.
Etymology The name abjad is based on the Arabic alphabet's first (in its original order) four letters—corresponding to a, b, j, and d—to replace the more common terms "consonantary" and "consonantal alphabet", in describing the family of scripts classified as "West Semitic".
Similar to other semitic languages such as Phoenician, Hebrew and Semitic proto-alphabets: specifically, aleph, bet, gimel, dalet.
Terminology According to the formulations of Peter T.
Daniels, abjads differ from alphabets in that only consonants, not vowels, are represented among the basic graphemes.
Abjads differ from abugidas, another category defined by Daniels, in that in abjads, the vowel sound is implied by phonology, and where vowel marks exist for the system, such as nikkud for Hebrew and ḥarakāt for Arabic, their use is optional and not the dominant (or literate) form.
Abugidas mark all vowels (other than the "inherent" vowel) with a diacritic, a minor attachment to the letter, a standalone glyph, or (in Canadian Aboriginal syllabics) by rotation of the letter.
Some abugidas use a special symbol to suppress the inherent vowel so that the consonant alone can be properly represented.
In a syllabary, a grapheme denotes a complete syllable, that is, either a lone vowel sound or a combination of a vowel sound with one or more consonant sounds.
The contrast of abjad versus alphabet has been rejected by other scholars because abjad is also used as a term for the Arabic numeral system.
Also, it may be taken as suggesting that consonantal alphabets, in contrast to e.g.
the Greek alphabet, were not yet true alphabets.
Florian Coulmas, a critic of Daniels and of the abjad terminology, argues that this terminology can confuse alphabets with "transcription systems", and that there is no reason to relegate the Hebrew, Aramaic or Phoenician alphabets to second-class status as an "incomplete alphabet".
However, Daniels's terminology has found acceptance in the linguistic community.
Origins The first abjad to gain widespread usage was the Phoenician abjad.
Unlike other contemporary scripts, such as cuneiform and Egyptian hieroglyphs, the Phoenician script consisted of only a few dozen symbols.
This made the script easy to learn, and seafaring Phoenician merchants took the script throughout the then-known world.
The Phoenician abjad was a radical simplification of phonetic writing, since hieroglyphics required the wr
An abugida (, from Ge'ez: ), sometimes known as alphasyllabary, neosyllabary or pseudo-alphabet, is a segmental writing system in which consonant–vowel sequences are written as units; each unit is based on a consonant letter, and vowel notation is secondary, like a diacritical mark.
The terms also contrast them with a syllabary, in which a single symbol denotes the combination of one consonant and one vowel.
In 1992, Faber suggested "segmentally coded syllabically linear phonographic script", and in 1992 Bright used the term alphasyllabary, and Gnanadesikan and Rimzhim, Katz, & Fowler have suggested aksara or āksharik.
Abugidas include the extensive Brahmic family of scripts of Tibet, South and Southeast Asia, Semitic Ethiopic scripts, and Canadian Aboriginal syllabics.
As is the case for syllabaries, the units of the writing system may consist of the representations both of syllables and of consonants.
For scripts of the Brahmic family, the term akshara is used for the units.
Etymology In several languages of Ethiopia and Eritrea, abugida traditionally meant letters of the Ethiopic or Ge‘ez script in which many of these languages are written.
Ge'ez is one of several segmental writing systems in the world, others include Indic/Brahmic scripts and Canadian Aboriginal Syllabics.
The word abugida is derived from the four letters, ä, bu, gi, and da, in much the same way that abecedary is derived from Latin letters a be ce de, abjad is derived from the Arabic a b j d, and alphabet is derived from the names of the two first letters in the Greek alphabet, alpha and beta.
Abugida as a term in linguistics was proposed by Peter T.
Daniels in his 1990 typology of writing systems.
Terminology As Daniels used the word, an abugida is in contrast with a syllabary, where letters with shared consonant or vowel sounds show no particular resemblance to one another.
Furthermore, an abugida is also in contrast with an alphabet proper, where independent letters are used to denote both consonants and vowels.
The term alphasyllabary was suggested for the Indic scripts in 1997 by William Bright, following South Asian linguistic usage, to convey the idea that, "they share features of both alphabet and syllabary." The formal definitions given by Daniels and Bright for abugida and alphasyllabary differ; some writing systems are abugidas but not alphasyllabaries, and some are alphasyllabaries but not abugidas.
ABBA ( , ; formerly named Björn & Benny, Agnetha & Anni-Frid or Björn & Benny, Agnetha & Frida) are a Swedish pop supergroup formed in Stockholm in 1972 by Agnetha Fältskog, Björn Ulvaeus, Benny Andersson, and Anni-Frid Lyngstad.
The group's name is an acronym of the first letters of their first names arranged as a palindrome.
They are one of the most popular and successful musical groups of all time, and are one of the best-selling music acts in the history of popular music, topping the charts worldwide from 1974 to 1982, and in 2022.
In , ABBA were 's first winner of the Eurovision Song Contest with the song "Waterloo", which in 2005 was chosen as the best song in the competition's history as part of the 50th anniversary celebration of the contest.
During the band's main active years, it consisted of two married couples: Fältskog and Ulvaeus, and Lyngstad and Andersson.
With the increase of their popularity, their personal lives suffered, which eventually resulted in the collapse of both marriages.
The relationship changes were reflected in the group's music, with later compositions featuring darker and more introspective lyrics.
After ABBA disbanded in December 1982, Andersson and Ulvaeus continued their success writing music for multiple audiences including stage, musicals and movies, while Fältskog and Lyngstad pursued solo careers.
Ten years after the group broke up, a compilation, ABBA Gold, was released becoming a worldwide best-seller.
In 1999, ABBA's music was adapted into Mamma Mia!, a stage musical that toured worldwide and, as of April 2022, is still in the top-ten longest running productions on both Broadway (closed in 2015) and the West End (still running).
Here We Go Again, was released in 2018.
Newly recorded songs were announced in 2018.
Voyage, their first new album in 40 years, was released on 5 November 2021 to positive critical reviews and strong sales in numerous countries.
ABBA Voyage, a concert residency featuring ABBA as virtual avatars, opened in May 2022 in London.
They are the best-selling Swedish band of all time and the best-s
An allegiance is a duty of fidelity said to be owed, or freely committed, by the people, subjects or citizens to their state or sovereign.
Etymology The word allegiance comes from Middle English (see Medieval Latin , "a liegance").
The al- prefix was probably added through confusion with another legal term, allegeance, an "allegation" (the French comes from the English).
Allegiance is formed from "liege," from Old French , "liege, free", of Germanic origin.
The connection with Latin , "to bind," is erroneous.
Usage Traditionally, English legal commentators used the term allegiance in two ways.
In the other sense, it meant national character and the subjection due to that character.
Allegiance was the tie which bound the subject to the sovereign, in return for that protection which the sovereign afforded the subject.
It was the mutual bond and obligation between monarch and subjects, whereby subjects were called their liege subjects, because they are bound to obey and serve them; and the monarch was called their liege lord, because they should maintain and defend them (Ex parte Anderson (1861) 3 El & El 487; 121 ER 525; China Navigation Co v Attorney-General (1932) 48 TLR 375; Attorney-General v Nissan [1969] 1 All ER 629; Oppenheimer v Cattermole [1972] 3 All ER 1106).
At common law, allegiance was a true and faithful obedience of the subject due to their sovereign.
As the subject owed to their sovereign their true and faithful allegiance and obedience, so the sovereign (Calvin's Case (1608) 7 Co Rep 1a; Jenk 306; 2 State Tr 559; 77 ER 377).
Natural allegiance and obedience is an incident inseparable to every subject, for parte Anderson (1861) 3 El & El 487; 121 ER 525).
The MessagePad is a discontinued series of personal digital assistant devices developed by Apple Computer for the Newton platform in 1993.
Some electronic engineering and the manufacture of Apple's MessagePad devices was undertaken in Japan by Sharp.
History The development of the Newton MessagePad first began with Apple's former senior vice president of research and development, Jean-Louis Gassée; his team included Steve Capps, co-writer of macOS Finder, and an employed engineer named Steve Sakoman.
The development of the Newton MessagePad operated in secret until it was eventually revealed to the Apple Board of Directors in late 1990.
When Gassée resigned from his position due to a significant disagreement with the board, seeing how his employer was treated, Sakoman also stopped developing the MessagePad on March 2, 1990.
Bill Atkinson, an Apple Executive responsible for the company's Lisa graphical interface, invited Steve Capps, John Sculley, Andy Hertzfeld, Susan Kare, and Marc Porat to a meeting on March 11, 1990.
There, they brainstormed a way of saving the MessagePad.
Sculley suggested adding new features, including libraries, museums, databases, or institutional archives features, allowing customers to navigate through various window tabs or opened galleries/stacks.
The first MessagePad was unveiled by Sculley on the 29th of May 1992 at the summer Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Chicago.
Sculley caved in to pressure to unveil the product early because the Newton did not officially ship for another 14 months on August 2, 1993, starting at a price of .
Over 50,000 units were sold by late November 1993.
Details Screen and input With the MessagePad 120 with Newton OS 2.0, the Newton Keyboard by Apple became available, which can also be used via the dongle on Newton devices with a Newton InterConnect port, most notably the Apple MessagePad 2000/2100 series, as well as the Apple eMate 300.
Newton devices featuring Newton OS 2.1 or higher can be used with the screen turned horizontally ("landscape") as well as vertically ("portrait").
A change of a setting rotates the contents of the display by 90, 180 or 270 degrees.
Handwriting recognition still works properly with the display rotated, although display calibration is needed when rotation in any direction is used for the first time or when the Newton device is reset.
Handwriting recognition In initial versions (Newton OS 1.x) the handwriting recognition gave extremely mixed results for users and was sometimes inaccurate.
The original handwriting recognition engine was called Calligrapher, and was licensed from a Russian company called Paragraph International.
Calligrapher's design was quite sophisticated; it attempted to
Alfred Elton van Vogt ( ; April 26, 1912 – January 26, 2000) was a Canadian-born American science fiction author.
His fragmented, bizarre narrative style influenced later science fiction writers, notably Philip K.
The Science Fiction Writers of America named him their 14th Grand Master in 1995 (presented 1996).
Early life Alfred Vogt (both "Elton" and "van" were added much later) was born on April 26, 1912, on his grandparents' farm in Edenburg, Manitoba, a tiny (and now defunct) Russian Mennonite community east of Gretna, Manitoba, Canada, in the Mennonite West Reserve.
He was the third of six children born to Heinrich "Henry" Vogt and Aganetha "Agnes" Vogt (née Buhr), both of whom were born in Manitoba and grew up in heavily immigrant communities.
Until he was four, van Vogt spoke only Plautdietsch at home.
For the first dozen or so years of his life, van Vogt's father, Henry Vogt, a lawyer, moved his family several times within western Canada, moving to Neville, Saskatchewan; Morden, Manitoba; and finally Winnipeg, Manitoba.
In "the dark days of '31 and '32," van Vogt took a correspondence course in writing from the Palmer Institute of Authorship.
He sold his first story in fall 1932.
His early published works were stories in the true confession style of magazines such as True Story.
Most of these stories were published anonymously, with the first-person narratives allegedly being written by people (often women) in extraordinary, emotional, and life-changing circumstances.
After a year in Ottawa, he moved back to Winnipeg, where he sold newspaper advertising space and continued to write.
While continuing to pen melodramatic "true confessions" stories through 1937, he also began writing short radio dramas for local radio station CKY, as well as conducting interviews published in trade magazines.
He added the middle name "Elton" at some point in the mid-1930s, and at least one confessional story (1937's "To Be His Keeper") was sold to the Toronto Star, who misspelled his name "Alfred Alton Bogt" in the byline.
van Vogt" both personally and professionally.
Career By 1938, van Vogt decided to switch to writing science fiction, a genre he enjoyed reading.
He was inspired by the August 1938 issue of Astounding Science Fiction, which he p
Anna Sergeyevna Kournikova (; born 7 June 1981) is a Russian former professional tennis player and American television personality.
Her appearance and celebrity status made her one of the best known tennis stars worldwide.
Despite never winning a singles title, she reached No.
She achieved greater success playing doubles, where she was at times the world No.
With Martina Hingis as her partner, she won Grand Slam titles in Australia in 1999 and 2002, and the WTA Championships in 1999 and 2000.
They referred to themselves as the "Spice Girls of Tennis".
Kournikova retired from professional tennis in 2003 due to serious back and spinal problems, including a herniated disk.
She lives in Miami Beach, Florida, and played in occasional exhibitions and in doubles for the St.
Louis Aces of World Team Tennis before the team folded in 2011.
She was a new trainer for season 12 of the television show The Biggest Loser, replacing Jillian Michaels, but did not return for season 13.
In addition to her tennis and television work, Kournikova serves as a Global Ambassador for Population Services International's "Five & Alive" program, which addresses health crises facing children under the age of five and their families.
Early life Kournikova was born in Moscow, Russia, on 7 June 1981.
Her father, Sergei Kournikov (born 1961), a former Greco-Roman wrestling champion, eventually earned a PhD and was a professor at the University of Physical Culture and Sport in Moscow.
As of 2001, he was still a part-time martial arts instructor there.
Her mother Alla (born 1963) had been a 400-metre runner.
Her younger half-brother, Allan, is a youth golf world champion who was featured in the 2013 documentary film The Short Game.
Sergei Kournikov has said, "We were young and we liked the clean, physical life, so Anna was in a good environment for sport from the beginning".
Kournikova received her first tennis racquet as a New Year gift in 1986 at the age of five.
Describing her early regimen, she said, "I played two times a week from age six.
And it was just for fun; my parents didn't know I was going to play professionally, they just wanted me to do something because I had lots of energy.
It was only when I started playing well at seven that I went to a professional academy.
I would go to school, and then my parents would take me to the club, and I'd spend the rest of the day there just having fun with the kids." In 1986, Kournikova became a member of the Spartak Tennis Club, coached by Larissa Preobrazhenskaya.
In 1989, at the age of eight, Kournikova began appearing in junior tournaments, and by the following year, was attracting attention from tennis scouts across the world.
She signed a management deal at age ten and went to Bradenton, Florida, to train at Nick Bollettieri's c
Alfons Maria Jakob (2 July 1884 – 17 October 1931) was a German neurologist who worked in the field of neuropathology.
He was born in Aschaffenburg, Bavaria and educated in medicine at the universities of Munich, Berlin, and Strasbourg, where he received his doctorate in 1908.
During the following year, he began clinical work under the psychiatrist Emil Kraepelin and did laboratory work with Franz Nissl and Alois Alzheimer in Munich.
In 1911, by way of an invitation from Wilhelm Weygandt, he relocated to Hamburg, where he worked with Theodor Kaes and eventually became head of the laboratory of anatomical pathology at the psychiatric State Hospital Hamburg-Friedrichsberg.
Following the death of Kaes in 1913, Jakob succeeded him as prosector.
In 1919, he obtained his habilitation for neurology and in 1924 became a professor of neurology.
Under Jakob's guidance the department grew rapidly.
He made significant contributions to knowledge on concussion and secondary nerve degeneration and became a doyen of neuropathology.
Jakob was the author of five monographs and nearly 80 scientific papers.
His neuropathological research contributed greatly to the delineation of several diseases, including multiple sclerosis and Friedreich's ataxia.
He first recognised and described Alper's disease and Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease (named along with Munich neuropathologist Hans Gerhard Creutzfeldt).
Jakob made a lecture tour of the United States (1924) and South America (1928), of which, he wrote a paper on the neuropathology of yellow fever.
He suffered from chronic osteomyelitis for the last seven years of his life.
This eventually caused a retroperitoneal abscess and paralytic ileus from which he died following operation.
Associated eponym Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease: A very rare and incurable degenerative neurological disease.
It is the most common form of transmissible spongiform encephalopathies caused by prions.
Eponym introduced by Walther Spielmeyer in 1922.
Bibliography Die extrapyramidalen Erkrankungen.
In: Monographien aus dem Gesamtgebiete der Neurologie und Psychiatry, Berlin, 1923 Normale und pathologische Anatomie und Histologie des Grosshirns.
Separate printing of Handbuch der Psychiatry.
Leipzig, 1927–1928 Das Kleinhirn.
In: Handbuch der mikroskopischen Anatomie, Berlin, 1928 Die Syphilis des Gehirns und seiner Häute.
In: Oswald Bumke (edit.): Handbuch der Geisteskrankheiten, Berlin, 1930.
References People from Aschaffenburg Academic staff of the University of Hamburg German neurologists German neuroscientists 1884 births 1931 deaths
Agnosticism is the view or belief that the existence of God, of the divine or the supernatural is unknown or unknowable.
Another definition provided is the view that "human reason is incapable of providing sufficient rational grounds to justify either the belief that God exists or the belief that God does not exist." The English biologist Thomas Henry Huxley coined the word agnostic in 1869.
His general definition was that "It is wrong for a man to say that he is certain of the objective truth of any proposition unless he can produce evidence which logically justifies that certainty.
This is what Agnosticism asserts; and, in my opinion, it is all that is essential to Agnosticism." In response to the question "Is Agnosticism in accord with modern science?" Huxley said that "Agnosticism is of the essence of science, whether ancient or modern.
Defining agnosticism Being a scientist, above all else, Huxley presented agnosticism as a form of demarcation.
A hypothesis with no supporting, objective, testable evidence is not an objective, scientific claim.
As such, there would be no way to test said hypotheses, leaving the results inconclusive.
His agnosticism was not compatible with forming a belief as to the truth, or falsehood, of the claim at hand.
Karl Popper would also describe himself as an agnostic.
According to philosopher William L.
Rowe, in this strict sense, agnosticism is the view that human reason is incapable of providing sufficient rational grounds to justify either the belief that God exists or the belief that God does not exist.
Smith, while admitting that the narrow definition of atheist was the common usage definition of that word, and admitting that the broad definition of agnostic was the common usage definition of that word, promoted broadening the definition of atheist and narrowing the definition of agnostic.
Smith rejects agnosticism as a third alternative to theism and atheism and promotes terms such as agnostic atheism (the view of those who do not hold a belief in the existence of any deity, but claim that the existence of a deity is unknown or inherently unknowable) and agnostic theism (the view of those who believe in the existence of a deity(s), but claim that the existence of a deity is unknown or inherently unknowable).
Early Christian church leaders used th
Argon is a chemical element with the symbol Ar and atomic number 18.
It is in group 18 of the periodic table and is a noble gas.
Argon is the third-most abundant gas in Earth's atmosphere, at 0.934% (9340 ppmv).
It is more than twice as abundant as water vapor (which averages about 4000 ppmv, but varies greatly), 23 times as abundant as carbon dioxide (400 ppmv), and more than 500 times as abundant as neon (18 ppmv).
Argon is the most abundant noble gas in Earth's crust, comprising 0.00015% of the crust.
Nearly all of the argon in Earth's atmosphere is radiogenic argon-40, derived from the decay of potassium-40 in Earth's crust.
In the universe, argon-36 is by far the most common argon isotope, as it is the most easily produced by stellar nucleosynthesis in supernovas.
The name "argon" is derived from the Greek word , neuter singular form of meaning 'lazy' or 'inactive', as a reference to the fact that the element undergoes almost no chemical reactions.
The complete octet (eight electrons) in the outer atomic shell makes argon stable and resistant to bonding with other elements.
Its triple point temperature of 83.8058 K is a defining fixed point in the International Temperature Scale of 1990.
Argon is extracted industrially by the fractional distillation of liquid air.
Argon is mostly used as an inert shielding gas in welding and other high-temperature industrial processes where ordinarily unreactive substances become reactive; for example, an argon atmosphere is used in graphite electric furnaces to prevent the graphite from burning.
Argon is also used in incandescent, fluorescent lighting, and other gas-discharge tubes.
Argon makes a distinctive blue-green gas laser.
Argon is also used in fluorescent glow starters.
Characteristics Argon has approximately the same solubility in water as oxygen and is 2.5 times more soluble in water than nitrogen.
Argon is colorless, odorless, nonflammable and nontoxic as a solid, liquid or gas.
Argon is chemically inert under most conditions and forms no confirmed stable compounds at room temperature.
Although argon is a noble gas, it can form some compounds under various extreme conditions.
Argon fluorohydride (HArF), a compound of argon with fluorine and hydrogen that is stable below , has been demonstrated.
Although the neutral ground-state chemical compounds of argon are presently limited to HArF, argon can form clathrates with water when atoms of argon are trapped in a lattice of water molecules.
Ions, such as , and excited-state complexes, such as ArF, have been demonstrated.
Theoretical calculation predicts several more argon compounds that should be stable but have not yet been synthesized.
History Argon (Greek , neuter singular form of meaning "lazy" or "inactive") is named in reference to its chemical inactivity.
This chemical property of this first noble gas to be discovered impressed the namers.
An unreactive gas was suspected to be a component of air by Henry Cavendish in 1785.
Arsenic is a chemical element with the symbol As and atomic number 33.
Arsenic occurs in many minerals, usually in combination with sulfur and metals, but also as a pure elemental crystal.
It has various allotropes, but only the grey form, which has a metallic appearance, is important to industry.
The primary use of arsenic is in alloys of lead (for example, in car batteries and ammunition).
Arsenic is a common n-type dopant in semiconductor electronic devices.
It is also a component of the III–V compound semiconductor gallium arsenide.
Arsenic and its compounds, especially the trioxide, are used in the production of pesticides, treated wood products, herbicides, and insecticides.
A few species of bacteria are able to use arsenic compounds as respiratory metabolites.
Trace quantities of arsenic are an essential dietary element in rats, hamsters, goats, chickens, and presumably other species.
A role in human metabolism is not known.
However, arsenic poisoning occurs in multicellular life if quantities are larger than needed.
Arsenic contamination of groundwater is a problem that affects millions of people across the world.
The United States' Environmental Protection Agency states that all forms of arsenic are a serious risk to human health.
The United States' Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry ranked arsenic as number 1 in its 2001 Priority List of Hazardous Substances at Superfund sites.
Arsenic is classified as a Group-A carcinogen.
Characteristics Physical characteristics The three most common arsenic allotropes are grey, yellow, and black arsenic, with grey being the most common.
Grey arsenic (α-As, space group Rm No.
166) adopts a double-layered structure consisting of many interlocked, ruffled, six-membered rings.
Because of weak bonding between the layers, grey arsenic is brittle and has a relatively low Mohs hardness of 3.5.
Nearest and next-nearest neighbors form a distorted octahedral complex, with the three atoms in the same double-layer being slightly closer than the three atoms in the next.
Grey arsenic is a semimetal, but becomes a semiconductor with a bandgap of 1.2–1.4 eV if amorphized.
Grey arsenic is also the most stable form.
Yellow arsenic is soft and waxy, and somewhat similar to tetraphosphorus ().
Both have four atoms arranged in a tetrahedral structure in which each atom is bound to each of the other three atoms by a single bond.
This unstable allotrope, being molecular, is the most volatile, least dense, and most toxic.
Solid yellow arsenic is produced by rapid cooling of arsenic vapor, .
It is rapidly transformed into grey arsenic by light.
The yellow form has a density of 1.97 g/cm3.
Black arsenic is similar in structure to black phosphorus.
Black arsenic can also be formed by cooling vapor at aroun
Antimony is a chemical element with the symbol Sb () and atomic number 51.
A lustrous gray metalloid, it is found in nature mainly as the sulfide mineral stibnite (Sb2S3).
Antimony compounds have been known since ancient times and were powdered for use as medicine and cosmetics, often known by the Arabic name kohl.
The earliest known description of the metalloid in the West was written in 1540 by Vannoccio Biringuccio.
China is the largest producer of antimony and its compounds, with most production coming from the Xikuangshan Mine in Hunan.
The industrial methods for refining antimony from stibnite are roasting followed by reduction with carbon, or direct reduction of stibnite with iron.
The largest applications for metallic antimony are in alloys with lead and tin, which have improved properties for solders, bullets, and plain bearings.
It improves the rigidity of lead-alloy plates in lead–acid batteries.
Antimony trioxide is a prominent additive for halogen-containing flame retardants.
Antimony is used as a dopant in semiconductor devices.
Characteristics Properties Antimony is a member of group 15 of the periodic table, one of the elements called pnictogens, and has an electronegativity of 2.05.
In accordance with periodic trends, it is more electronegative than tin or bismuth, and less electronegative than tellurium or arsenic.
Antimony is stable in air at room temperature, but reacts with oxygen if heated to produce antimony trioxide, Sb2O3.
Antimony is a silvery, lustrous gray metalloid with a Mohs scale hardness of 3, which is too soft to mark hard objects.
Coins of antimony were issued in China's Guizhou province in 1931; durability was poor, and minting was soon discontinued.
Antimony is resistant to attack by acids.
Four allotropes of antimony are known: a stable metallic form, and three metastable forms (explosive, black, and yellow).
Elemental antimony is a brittle, silver-white, shiny metalloid.
When slowly cooled, molten antimony crystallizes into a trigonal cell, isomorphic with the gray allotrope of arsenic.
A rare explosive form of antimony can be formed from the electrolysis of antimony trichloride.
When scratched with a sharp implement, an exothermic reaction occurs and white fumes are given off as metallic antimony forms; when rubbed with a pestle in a mortar, a strong detonation occurs.
Black antimony is formed upon rapid cooling of antimony vapor.
It has the same crystal structure as red phosphorus and black arsenic; it oxidizes in air and may ignite spontaneously.
At 100 °C, it gradually transforms into the stable form.
The yellow allotrope of antimony is the most unstable; it has been generated only by oxidation of stibine (SbH3) at −90 °C.
Above this temperature and in ambient light, this metastable allotrope transforms into the more stable black allotrope.
Elemental antimony adopts a layered structure (space group Rm No.
166) whose layers consist of fused, ruffled, six-membered rings.
Actinium is a chemical element with the symbol Ac and atomic number 89.
It was first isolated by Friedrich Oskar Giesel in 1902, who gave it the name emanium; the element got its name by being wrongly identified with a substance André-Louis Debierne found in 1899 and called actinium.
Actinium gave the name to the actinide series, a set of 15 elements between actinium and lawrencium in the periodic table.
Together with polonium, radium, and radon, actinium was one of the first non-primordial radioactive elements to be isolated.
A soft, silvery-white radioactive metal, actinium reacts rapidly with oxygen and moisture in air forming a white coating of actinium oxide that prevents further oxidation.
As with most lanthanides and many actinides, actinium assumes oxidation state +3 in nearly all its chemical compounds.
Actinium is found only in traces in uranium and thorium ores as the isotope 227Ac, which decays with a half-life of 21.772 years, predominantly emitting beta and sometimes alpha particles, and 228Ac, which is beta active with a half-life of 6.15 hours.
One tonne of natural uranium in ore contains about 0.2 milligrams of actinium-227, and one tonne of thorium contains about 5 nanograms of actinium-228.
The close similarity of physical and chemical properties of actinium and lanthanum makes separation of actinium from the ore impractical.
Instead, the element is prepared, in milligram amounts, by the neutron irradiation of in a nuclear reactor.
Its current applications include a neutron source and an agent for radiation therapy.
History André-Louis Debierne, a French chemist, announced the discovery of a new element in 1899.
He separated it from pitchblende residues left by Marie and Pierre Curie after they had extracted radium.
In 1899, Debierne described the substance as similar to titanium and (in 1900) as similar to thorium.
Friedrich Oskar Giesel found in 1902 a substance similar to lanthanum and called it "emanium" in 1904.
After a comparison of the substances' half-lives determined by Debierne, Harriet Brooks in 1904, and Otto Hahn and Otto Sackur in 1905, Debierne's chosen name for the new element was retained because it had seniority, despite the contradicting chemical properties he claimed for the element at different times.
Articles published in the 1970s and later suggest that Debierne's results published in 1904 conflict with those reported in 1899 and 1900.
This has led some authors to advocate that Giesel alone
Americium is a synthetic radioactive chemical element with the symbol Am and atomic number 95.
It is a transuranic member of the actinide series, in the periodic table located under the lanthanide element europium and was thus named after the United States by analogy.
Americium was first produced in 1944 by the group of Glenn T.
Seaborg from Berkeley, California, at the Metallurgical Laboratory of the University of Chicago, as part of the Manhattan Project.
Although it is the third element in the transuranic series, it was discovered fourth, after the heavier curium.
The discovery was kept secret and only released to the public in November 1945.
Most americium is produced by uranium or plutonium being bombarded with neutrons in nuclear reactors – one tonne of spent nuclear fuel contains about 100 grams of americium.
It is widely used in commercial ionization chamber smoke detectors, as well as in neutron sources and industrial gauges.
Americium is a relatively soft radioactive metal with silvery appearance.
Its most common isotopes are 241Am and 243Am.
In chemical compounds, americium usually assumes the oxidation state +3, especially in solutions.
Several other oxidation states are known, ranging from +2 to +7, and can be identified by their characteristic optical absorption spectra.
The crystal lattices of solid americium and its compounds contain small intrinsic radiogenic defects, due to metamictization induced by self-irradiation with alpha particles, which accumulates with time; this can cause a drift of some material properties over time, more noticeable in older samples.
History Although americium was likely produced in previous nuclear experiments, it was first intentionally synthesized, isolated and identified in late autumn 1944, at the University of California, Berkeley, by Glenn T.
They used a 60-inch cyclotron at the University of California, Berkeley.
The element was chemically identified at the Metallurgical Laboratory (now Argonne National Laboratory) of the University of Chicago.
Following the lighter neptunium, plutonium, and heavier curium, americium was the fourth transuranium element to be discovered.
At the time, the periodic table had been restructured by Seaborg to its present layout, containing the actinide row below the lanthanide one.
This led to americium being located right below its twin lanthanide element europium; it was thus by analogy named after the Americas: "The name americium (after the Americas) and the symbol Am are suggested for the element on the basis of its position as the sixth member of the actinide rare-earth series, analogous to europium, Eu, of the lanthanide series." The new element was isolated from its
Astatine is a chemical element with the symbol At and atomic number 85.
It is the rarest naturally occurring element in the Earth's crust, occurring only as the decay product of various heavier elements.
All of astatine's isotopes are short-lived; the most stable is astatine-210, with a half-life of 8.1 hours.
Consequently, a solid sample of the element has never been seen, because any macroscopic specimen would be immediately vaporized by the heat of its radioactivity.
The bulk properties of astatine are not known with certainty.
Many of them have been estimated from its position on the periodic table as a heavier analog of iodine, and a member of the halogens (the group of elements including fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine and tennessine).
However, astatine also falls roughly along the dividing line between metals and nonmetals, and some metallic behavior has also been observed and predicted for it.
Astatine is likely to have a dark or lustrous appearance and may be a semiconductor or possibly a metal.
Chemically, several anionic species of astatine are known and most of its compounds resemble those of iodine, but it also sometimes displays metallic characteristics and shows some similarities to silver.
The first synthesis of astatine was in 1940 by Dale R.
Corson, Kenneth Ross MacKenzie, and Emilio G.
Segrè at the University of California, Berkeley.
They named it from the Ancient Greek () 'unstable'.
Four isotopes of astatine were subsequently found to be naturally occurring, although much less than one gram is present at any given time in the Earth's crust.
Neither the most stable isotope, astatine-210, nor the medically useful astatine-211 occur naturally; they are usually produced by bombarding bismuth-209 with alpha particles.
Characteristics Astatine is an extremely radioactive element; all its isotopes have half-lives of 8.1 hours or less, decaying into other astatine isotopes, bismuth, polonium, or radon.
Most of its isotopes are very unstable, with half-lives of seconds or less.
Of the first 101 elements in the periodic table, only francium is less stable, and all the astatine isotopes more stable than the longest-lived francium isotopes are in any case synthetic and do not occur in nature.
The bulk properties of astatine are not known with any certainty.
Research is limited by its short half-life, which prevents the creation of weighable quantities.
A visible piece of astatine would immediately vaporize itself because of the heat generated by its intense radioactivity.
It remains to be seen if, with sufficient cooling, a macroscopic quantity of astatine could be deposited as a thin film.
Astatine is usually classified as either a nonmetal or a metalloid; metal formation has also been predicted.
Physical Most of the physical properties of astatine have been estimated (by interpolation or extrapolation), using theoretically or empirically derived methods.
For example, halogens get darker with increasing atomic weight – fluor
An atom is a particle that consists of a nucleus of protons and neutrons surrounded by an electromagnetically-bound cloud of electrons.
The atom is the basic particle of the chemical elements, and the chemical elements are distinguished from each other by the number of protons that are in their atoms.
For example, any atom that contains 11 protons is sodium, and any atom that contains 29 protons is copper.
The number of neutrons defines the isotope of the element.
Atoms are extremely small, typically around 100 picometers across.
A human hair is about a million carbon atoms wide.
This is smaller than the shortest wavelength of visible light, which means humans cannot see atoms with conventional microscopes.
More than 99.94% of an atom's mass is in the nucleus.
Each proton has a positive electric charge, while each electron has a negative charge, and the neutrons, if any are present, have no electric charge.
If the numbers of protons and electrons are equal, as they normally are, then the atom is electrically neutral.
If an atom has more electrons than protons, then it has an overall negative charge, and is called a negative ion (or anion).
Conversely, if it has more protons than electrons, it has a positive charge, and is called a positive ion (or cation).
The electrons of an atom are attracted to the protons in an atomic nucleus by the electromagnetic force.
The protons and neutrons in the nucleus are attracted to each other by the nuclear force.
This force is usually stronger than the electromagnetic force that repels the positively charged protons from one another.
Under certain circumstances, the repelling electromagnetic force becomes stronger than the nuclear force.
In this case, the nucleus splits and leaves behind different elements.
This is a form of nuclear decay.
Atoms can attach to one or more other atoms by chemical bonds to form chemical compounds such as molecules or crystals.
The ability of atoms to attach and detach from each other is responsible for most of the physical changes observed in nature.
The word atom is derived from the ancient Greek word atomos, which means "uncuttable".
This ancient idea was based in philosophical reasoning rather than scientific reasoning.
Arable land (from the , "able to be ploughed") is any land capable of being ploughed and used to grow crops.
Alternatively, for the purposes of agricultural statistics, the term often has a more precise definition: A more concise definition appearing in the Eurostat glossary similarly refers to actual rather than potential uses: "land worked (ploughed or tilled) regularly, generally under a system of crop rotation".
In Britain, arable land has traditionally been contrasted with pasturable land such as heaths, which could be used for sheep-rearing but not as farmland.
Arable land is vulnerable to land degradation and some types of un-arable land can be enriched to create useful land.
Climate change and biodiversity loss, are driving pressure on arable land.
Arable land (hectares per person) Non-arable land Agricultural land that is not arable according to the FAO definition above includes: Meadows and pasturesland used as pasture and grazed range, and those natural grasslands and sedge meadows that are used for hay production in some regions.
Permanent cropland that produces crops from woody vegetation, e.g.
orchard land, vineyards, coffee plantations, rubber plantations, and land producing nut trees; Other non-arable land includes land that is not suitable for any agricultural use.
Although such limitations may preclude cultivation, and some will in some cases preclude any agricultural use, large areas unsuitable for cultivation may still be agriculturally productive.
For example, United States NRCS statistics indicate that about 59 percent of US non-federal pasture and unforested rangeland is unsuitable for cultivation, yet such land has value for grazing of livestock.
In British Columbia, Canada, 41 percent of the provincial Agricultural Land Reserve area is unsuitable for the production of cultivated crops, but is suitable for uncultivated production of forage usable by grazing livestock.
Similar examples can be found in many rangeland areas elsewhere.
Changes in arability Land conversion Land incapable of being cultivated for the production of crops can sometimes be converted to arable land.
New arable land makes more food and can reduce starvation.
Aluminium (aluminum in North American English) is a chemical element with the symbol Al and atomic number 13.
Aluminium has a density lower than those of other common metals; about one-third that of steel.
Aluminium visually resembles silver, both in its color and in its great ability to reflect light.
It is soft, nonmagnetic and ductile.
The radioactivity of 26Al is used in radiometric dating.
Chemically, aluminium is a post-transition metal in the boron group; as is common for the group, aluminium forms compounds primarily in the +3 oxidation state.
The aluminium cation Al3+ is small and highly charged; as such, it has more polarizing power, and bonds formed by aluminium have a more covalent character.
The strong affinity of aluminium for oxygen leads to the common occurrence of its oxides in nature.
Aluminium is found on Earth primarily in rocks in the crust, where it is the third-most abundant element, after oxygen and silicon, rather than in the mantle, and virtually never as the free metal.
It is obtained industrially by mining bauxite, a sedimentary rock rich in aluminium minerals.
The discovery of aluminium was announced in 1825 by Danish physicist Hans Christian Ørsted.
The first industrial production of aluminium was initiated by French chemist Henri Étienne Sainte-Claire Deville in 1856.
Aluminium became much more available to the public with the Hall–Héroult process developed independently by French engineer Paul Héroult and American engineer Charles Martin Hall in 1886, and the mass production of aluminium led to its extensive use in industry and everyday life.
In 1954, aluminium became the most produced non-ferrous metal, surpassing copper.
Despite its prevalence in the environment, no living organism is known to use aluminium salts for metabolism, but aluminium is well tolerated by plants and animals.
Because of the abundance of these salts, the potential for a biological role for them is of interest, and studies continue.
Physical characteristics Isotopes Of aluminium isotopes, only is stable.
This situation is common for elements with an odd atomic number.
It is the only primordial aluminium isotope, i.e.
the only one that has existed on Earth in its current form since the formation of the planet.
It is therefore a mononuclidic element and its standard atomic weight is virtually the same as that of the isotope.
This makes aluminium very useful in nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR), as its single stable isotope has a high NMR sensitivity.
Each member of the group holds German citizenship, and Toni L, Linguist, and Torch are of Italian, Ghanaian, and Haitian backgrounds, respectively.
They were one of the first groups to rap in German (although their name is in English).
Furthermore, their songs tackled controversial social and political issues, distinguishing them from early German hip hop group "Die Fantastischen Vier" (The Fantastic Four), which had a more light-hearted, playful, party image.
The single became a staple in the German hip hop scene.
It made a strong statement about the status of immigrants throughout Germany, as the group was composed of multi-national and multi-racial members.
The video shows several members brandishing their German passports as a demonstration of their German citizenship to skeptical and unaccepting 'ethnic' Germans.
This idea of national identity is important, as many rap artists in Germany have been of foreign origin.
These so-called Gastarbeiter (guest workers) children saw breakdance, graffiti, rap music, and hip hop culture as a means of expressing themselves.
Since the release of "Fremd im eigenen Land", many other German-language rappers have also tried to confront anti-immigrant ideas and develop themes of citizenship.
The Anglican Communion is the third largest Christian communion after the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches.
Founded in 1867 in London, the communion has more than 85 million members within the Church of England and other autocephalous national and regional churches in full communion.
The traditional origins of Anglican doctrine are summarised in the Thirty-nine Articles (1571).
The archbishop of Canterbury (, Justin Welby) in England acts as a focus of unity, recognised as ("first among equals"), but does not exercise authority in Anglican provinces outside of the Church of England.
Most, but not all, member churches of the communion are the historic national or regional Anglican churches.
The Anglican Communion was officially and formally organised and recognised as such at the Lambeth Conference in 1867 in London under the leadership of Charles Longley, Archbishop of Canterbury.
The churches of the Anglican Communion consider themselves to be part of the one, holy, catholic and apostolic church, and to be both catholic and Reformed.
As in the Church of England itself, the Anglican Communion includes the broad spectrum of beliefs and liturgical practises found in the Evangelical, Central and Anglo-Catholic traditions of Anglicanism.
Each national or regional church is fully independent, retaining its own legislative process and episcopal polity under the leadership of local primates.
For some adherents, Anglicanism represents a non-papal Catholicism, for others a form of Protestantism though without a guiding figure such as Martin Luther, John Knox, John Calvin, Huldrych Zwingli, John Wesley or Jan Hus, or, for yet others, a combination of the two.
Most of its members live in the Anglosphere of former British territories.
Full participation in the sacramental life of each church is available to all communicant members.
Because of their historical link to England (ecclesia anglicana means "English church"), some of the member churches are known as "Anglican", such as the Anglican Church of Canada.
Others, for example the Church of Ireland and the Scottish and American Episcopal churches, have official names that do not include "Anglican".
Conversely, some churches that do use the name "Anglican" are not part of the communion.
These have generally disaffiliated over disagreement with the direction of the communion.
History The Anglican Communion traces much of its growth to the older mission organisations of the Church of England such as the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge (founded 1698), the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel in For
Arne Kaijser (born 1950) is a professor emeritus of history of technology at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, and a former president of the Society for the History of Technology.
Kaijser has published two books in Swedish: Stadens ljus.
Etableringen av de första svenska gasverken and I fädrens spår.
Den svenska infrastrukturens historiska utveckling och framtida utmaningar, and has co-edited several anthologies.
Kaijser is a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences since 2007 and also a member of the editorial board of two scientific journals: Journal of Urban Technology and Centaurus.
Lately, he has been occupied with the history of Large Technical Systems.
An archipelago ( ), sometimes called an island group or island chain, is a chain, cluster, or collection of islands, or sometimes a sea containing a small number of scattered islands.
Examples of archipelagos include: the Indonesian Archipelago, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, the Lakshadweep Islands, the Galápagos Islands, the Japanese archipelago, the Philippine Archipelago, the Maldives, the Balearic Islands, the Åland Islands, The Bahamas, the Aegean Islands, the Hawaiian Islands, the Canary Islands, Malta, the Azores, the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, the British Isles, the islands of the Archipelago Sea, and Shetland.
Archipelagos are sometimes defined by political boundaries.
For example, while they are geopolitically divided, the San Juan Islands and Gulf Islands geologically form part of a larger Gulf Archipelago.
Etymology The word archipelago is derived from the Ancient Greek ἄρχι-(arkhi-, "chief") and πέλαγος (pélagos, "sea") through the Italian arcipelago.
In antiquity, "Archipelago" (from Medieval Greek *ἀρχιπέλαγος and Latin ) was the proper name for the Aegean Sea.
Later, usage shifted to refer to the Aegean Islands (since the sea has a large number of islands).
Geographic types Archipelagos may be found isolated in large amounts of water or neighbouring a large land mass.
For example, Scotland has more than 700 islands surrounding its mainland, which form an archipelago.
Archipelagos are often volcanic, forming along island arcs generated by subduction zones or hotspots, but may also be the result of erosion, deposition, and land elevation.
Continental fragments Continental fragments correspond to land masses that have separated from a continental mass due to tectonic displacement.
The Farallon Islands off the coast of California are an example.
Continental archipelagos Sets of islands formed close to the coast of a continent are considered continental archipelagos when they form part of the same continental shelf, when those islands are above-water extensions of the shelf.
The islands of the Inside Passage off the coast of British Columbia and the Canadian Arctic Archipelago are examples.
Artificial archipelagos Artificial archipelagos have been created in various countries for different purposes.
Palm Islands and The World Islands off Dubai were or are being created for leisure and tourism purposes.
Marker Wadden in the Netherlands is being built as a conservation area for birds and other wildlife.
Superlatives The largest archipelago in the world is the Archipelago Sea which is part of Finland.
There are approximately 40,000, mostly uni
In legal discourse, an author is the creator of an original work, whether that work is in written, graphic, or recorded medium.
In the case of a work for hire, "the employer or commissioning party is considered the author of the work", even if they did not write or otherwise create the work, but merely instructed another individual to do so.
Typically, the first owner of a copyright is the person who created the work, i.e.
If more than one person created the work, then a case of joint authorship takes place.
Copyright laws differ around the world.
The United States Copyright Office, for example, defines copyright as "a form of protection provided by the laws of the United States (title 17, U.S.
Code) to authors of 'original works of authorship.'" Some works are considered to be authorless.
For example, the monkey selfie copyright dispute in the 2010s involved photographs taken by Celebes crested macaques using equipment belonging to a nature photographer.
The photographer asserted authorship of the photographs, which the United States Copyright Office denied, stating: "To qualify as a work of 'authorship' a work must be created by a human being".
More recently, questions have arisen as to whether images or text created by a generative artificial intelligence have an author.
Legal significance of authorship Holding the title of "author" over any "literary, dramatic, musical, artistic, [or] certain other intellectual works" gives rights to this person, the owner of the copyright, especially the exclusive right to engage in or authorize any production or distribution of their work.
Any person or entity wishing to use intellectual property held under copyright must receive permission from the copyright holder to use this work, and often will be asked to pay for the use of copyrighted material.
The copyrights on intellectual work expire after a certain time.
It enters the public domain, where it can be used without limit.
Copyright laws in many jurisdictions – mostly following the lead of the United States, in which the entertainment and publishing industries have very strong lobbying power – have been amended repeatedly since their inception, to extend the length of this fixed period where the work is exclusively controlled by the copyright holder.
Technically, someone owns their work from the time it's created.
A notable aspect of authorship emerges with copyright in that, in many jurisdictions, it can be passed down to another upon one's death.
The person who inherits the copyright is not the author, but has access to the same legal benefits.
Intellectual property laws are complex.
Fiction work involves trademark law, likeness rights, fair use rights held by the public (including the right to parod
Andrey Andreyevich Markov (14 June 1856 – 20 July 1922) was a Russian mathematician best known for his work on stochastic processes.
A primary subject of his research later became known as the Markov chain.
He was also a strong, close to master-level chess player.
Markov and his younger brother Vladimir Andreevich Markov (1871–1897) proved the Markov brothers' inequality.
Biography Andrey Markov was born on 14 June 1856 in Russia.
Petersburg Grammar School, where some teachers saw him as a rebellious student.
Later in life he attended Saint Petersburg Imperial University (now Saint Petersburg State University).
Among his teachers were Yulian Sokhotski (differential calculus, higher algebra), Konstantin Posse (analytic geometry), Yegor Zolotarev (integral calculus), Pafnuty Chebyshev (number theory and probability theory), Aleksandr Korkin (ordinary and partial differential equations), Mikhail Okatov (mechanism theory), Osip Somov (mechanics), and Nikolai Budajev (descriptive and higher geometry).
He completed his studies at the university and was later asked if he would like to stay and have a career as a Mathematician.
He later taught at high schools and continued his own mathematical studies.
In this time he found a practical use for his mathematical skills.
He figured out that he could use chains to model the alliteration of vowels and consonants in Russian literature.
He also contributed to many other mathematical aspects in his time.
He died at age 66 on 20 July 1922.
During the following year, he passed the candidate's examinations, and he remained at the university to prepare for a lecturer's position.
In April 1880, Markov defended his master's thesis "On the Binary Square Forms with Positive Determinant", which was directed by Aleksandr Korkin and Yegor Zolotarev.
Four years later in 1884, he defended his doctoral thesis titled "On Certain Applications of the Algebraic Continuous Fractions".
His pedagogical work began after the defense of his master's thesis in autumn 1880.
As a privatdozent he lectured on differential and integral calculus.
Later he lectured alternately on "introduction to analysis", probability theory (succeeding Chebyshev, who had left the university in 1882) and the calculus of differences.
From 1895 through 1905 he also lectured in differential calculus.
One year after the defense of his doctoral thesis, Markov was appointed extraordinary professor (1886) and in the same year he was elected adjunct to the Academy of Sciences.
Angst is fear or anxiety (anguish is its Latinate equivalent, and the words anxious and anxiety are of similar origin).
The dictionary definition for angst is a feeling of anxiety, apprehension, or insecurity.
Etymology The word angst was introduced into English from the Danish, Norwegian, and Dutch word and the German word .
It is used in English to describe an intense feeling of apprehension, anxiety, or inner turmoil.
In other languages (with words from the Latin for "fear" or "panic"), the derived words differ in meaning; for example, as in the French and .
The use of the term was first attributed to Danish philosopher Søren Kierkegaard (1813–1855).
Where non-human animals are guided solely by instinct, said Kierkegaard, human beings enjoy a freedom of choice that we find both appealing and terrifying.
It is the anxiety of understanding of being free when considering undefined possibilities of one's life and the immense responsibility of having the power of choice over them.
Anxiety is an emotion which is characterized by an unpleasant state of inner turmoil and includes feelings of dread over anticipated events.
Anxiety is different from fear in that fear is defined as the emotional response to a real threat, whereas anxiety is the anticipation of a future threat.
It is often accompanied by nervous behavior such as pacing back and forth, somatic complaints, and rumination.
Anxiety is a feeling of uneasiness and worry, usually generalized and unfocused as an overreaction to a situation that is only subjectively seen as menacing.
It is often accompanied by muscular tension, restlessness, fatigue, inability to catch one's breath, tightness in the abdominal region, nausea, and problems in concentration.
Anxiety is closely related to fear, which is a response to a real or perceived immediate threat (fight or flight response); anxiety involves the expectation of future threat including dread.
People facing anxiety may withdraw from situations which have provoked anxiety in the past.
The emotion of anxiety can persist beyond the developmentally appropriate time-periods in response to specific events, and thus turning into one of the multiple anxiety disorders (e.g.
generalized anxiety disorder, panic disorder).
The difference between anxiety disorder (as mental disorder) and anxiety (as normal emotion), is that people with an anxiety disorder experience anxiety most of the days during approximately 6 months, or even during shorter time-periods in children.
Anxiety disorders are among the most persistent mental problems and often last decades.
Besides, strong percepts of anxiety exist within other mental disorders, e.g.
obsessive-compulsive disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder.
fear Anxiety is distinguished from fear, which is an appropriate cognitive and emotional response to a perceived threat.
Anxiety is related to the specific behaviors of fight-or-flight responses, defensive behavior or escape.
There is a false presumption that often circulates that anxiety only occurs in situations perceived as uncontrollable or unavoidable, but this is not always so.
David Barlow defines anxiety as "a future-oriented mood state in which one is not ready or prepared to attempt to cope with upcoming negative events," and that it is a distinction between future and present dangers which divides anxiety and fear.
Another description of anxiety is agony, dread, terror, or even apprehension.
In positive psychology, anxiety is described as the mental state that results from a difficult challenge for which the subject has insufficient coping skills.
Alan Alexander Milne (; 18 January 1882 – 31 January 1956) was an English writer best known for his books about the teddy bear Winnie-the-Pooh, as well as for children's poetry.
Milne was primarily a playwright before the huge success of Winnie-the-Pooh overshadowed all his previous work.
Milne was the father of bookseller Christopher Robin Milne, upon whom the character Christopher Robin is based.
It was during a visit to London Zoo, where Christopher became enamoured with the tame and amiable bear Winnipeg, that Milne was inspired to write the story of Winnie-the-Pooh for his son.
Milne bequeathed the original manuscripts of the Winnie-the-Pooh stories to the Wren Library at Trinity College, Cambridge, his alma mater.
Early life and military career Alan Alexander Milne was born in Kilburn, London, to John Vine Milne, who was born in Jamaica, and Sarah Marie Milne (née Heginbotham), on 18 January 1882.
He grew up at Henley House School, 6/7 Mortimer Road (now Crescent), Kilburn, a small independent school run by his father.
Wells, who taught there in 1889–90.
He edited and wrote for Granta, a student magazine.
He collaborated with his brother Kenneth and their articles appeared over the initials AKM.
Milne's work came to the attention of the leading British humour magazine Punch, where Milne was to become a contributor and later an assistant editor.
Considered a talented cricket fielder, Milne played for two amateur teams that were largely composed of British writers: the Allahakbarries and the Authors XI.
His teammates included fellow writers J.
Barrie, Arthur Conan Doyle and P.
His commission was confirmed on 20 December 1915.
He served on the Somme as a signals officer from July-November 1916, but caught trench fever and was invalided back to England.
Having recuperated, he worked as a signals instructor, before being recruited into Military Intelligence to write propaganda articles for MI7 (b) between 1917 and 1918.
He was discharged on 14 February 1919, and settled in Mallord Street, Chelsea.
He relinquished his commission on 19 February 1920, retaining the rank of lieutenant.
Asociación Alumni, usually just Alumni, is an Argentine rugby union club located in Tortuguitas, Greater Buenos Aires.
The senior squad currently competes at Top 12, the first division of the Unión de Rugby de Buenos Aires league system.
The club has ties with former football club Alumni because both were established by Buenos Aires English High School students.
History Background The first club with the name "Alumni" played association football, having been found in 1898 by students of Buenos Aires English High School (BAEHS) along with director Alexander Watson Hutton.
Originally under the name "English High School A.C.", the team would be later obliged by the Association to change its name, therefore "Alumni" was chosen, following a proposal by Carlos Bowers, a former student of the school.
Alumni was the most successful team during the first years of Argentine football, winning 10 of 14 league championships contested.
Alumni was reorganised in 1908, "in order to encourage people to practise all kind of sports, specially football".
This was the last try to develop itself as a sports club rather than just a football team, such as Lomas, Belgrano and Quilmes had successfully done in the past, but the efforts were not enough.
Alumni played its last game in 1911 and was definitely dissolved on April 24, 1913.
Rebirth through rugby In 1951, two guards of the BAEHS, Daniel Ginhson (also a former player of Buenos Aires F.C.) and Guillermo Cubelli, supported by the school's alumni and fathers of the students, they decided to establish a club focused on rugby union exclusively.
Former players still alive of Alumni football club and descendants of other players already dead gave their permission to use the name "Alumni".
On December 13, in a meeting presided by Carlos Bowers himself (who had proposed the name "Alumni" to the original football team 50 years before), the club was officially established under the name "Asociación Juvenil Alumni", also adopting the same colors as its predecessor.
The team achieved good results and in 1960 the club presented a team that won the third division of the Buenos Aires league, reaching the second division.
Since then, Alumni has played at the highest level of Argentine rugby and its rivalry with Belgrano Athletic Club is one of the fiercest local derbies in Buenos Aires.
Alumni would later climb up to first division winning 5 titles: 4 consecutive between 1989 and 1992, and the other in 2001.
In 2002, Alumni won its first Nacional de Clubes title, defeating Jockey Club de Rosario 23–21 in the final.
Players Current roster As of January 2018: Federico Lucca Gaspar Baldunciel Guido Cambareri Iñaki Etchegaray Bernardo Quaranta Tobias Moyano Mariano Romanini Santiago Montagner Tomas Passerotti Lucas Frana Luca Sabato Franco Batezzatti Franco Sabato Rafael Desanto Nito Provenzano Tomas Bivort Juan.P Ceraso Santiago Ald
An axiom, postulate, or assumption is a statement that is taken to be true, to serve as a premise or starting point for further reasoning and arguments.
The precise definition varies across fields of study.
In modern logic, an axiom is a premise or starting point for reasoning.
Logical axioms are taken to be true within the system of logic they define and are often shown in symbolic form (e.g., (A and B) implies A), while non-logical axioms (e.g., ) are substantive assertions about the elements of the domain of a specific mathematical theory, such as arithmetic.
Non-logical axioms may also be called "postulates" or "assumptions".
In most cases, a non-logical axiom is simply a formal logical expression used in deduction to build a mathematical theory, and might or might not be self-evident in nature (e.g., the parallel postulate in Euclidean geometry).
To axiomatize a system of knowledge is to show that its claims can be derived from a small, well-understood set of sentences (the axioms), and there are typically many ways to axiomatize a given mathematical domain.
Any axiom is a statement that serves as a starting point from which other statements are logically derived.
Etymology The word axiom comes from the Greek word (axíōma), a verbal noun from the verb (axioein), meaning "to deem worthy", but also "to require", which in turn comes from (áxios), meaning "being in balance", and hence "having (the same) value (as)", "worthy", "proper".
Among the ancient Greek philosophers an axiom was a claim which could be seen to be self-evidently true without any need for proof.
The root meaning of the word postulate is to "demand"; for instance, Euclid demands that one agree that some things can be done (e.g., any two points can be joined by a straight line).
Ancient geometers maintained some distinction between axioms and postulates.
While commenting on Euclid's books, Proclus remarks that "Geminus held that this [4th] Postulate should not be classed as a postulate but as an axiom, since it does not, like the first three Postulates, assert the possibility of some construction but expresses an essential property." Boethius translated 'postulate' as petitio and called the axioms notiones communes but in later manuscripts this usage was not always strictly kept.
Historical development Early Greeks The logico-deductive method whereby conclusions (new knowledge) follow from premises (old knowledge) through the application of sound arguments (syllogisms, rules of infere
Alpha (uppercase , lowercase ; , , or ) is the first letter of the Greek alphabet.
In the system of Greek numerals, it has a value of one.
Alpha is derived from the Phoenician letter aleph , which is the West Semitic word for "ox".
Letters that arose from alpha include the Latin letter A and the Cyrillic letter А.
Uses Greek In Ancient Greek, alpha was pronounced and could be either phonemically long ([aː]) or short ([a]).
Where there is ambiguity, long and short alpha are sometimes written with a macron and breve today: .
= "a time" = "tongue" In Modern Greek, vowel length has been lost, and all instances of alpha simply represent the open front unrounded vowel .
In the polytonic orthography of Greek, alpha, like other vowel letters, can occur with several diacritic marks: any of three accent symbols (), and either of two breathing marks (), as well as combinations of these.
It can also combine with the iota subscript ().
Greek grammar In the Attic–Ionic dialect of Ancient Greek, long alpha fronted to (eta).
In Ionic, the shift took place in all positions.
In Attic, the shift did not take place after epsilon, iota, and rho (; ).
In Doric and Aeolic, long alpha is preserved in all positions.
It originates from the Proto-Indo-European * (syllabic nasal) and is cognate with English un-.
Copulative a is the Greek prefix or .
It comes from Proto-Indo-European *.
In ethology, it is used to name the dominant individual in a group of animals.
In aerodynamics, the letter is used as a symbol for the angle of attack of an aircraft and the word "alpha" is used as a synonym for this property.
In mathematical logic, α is sometimes used as a placeholder for ordinal numbers.
The proportionality operator "∝" (in Unicode: U+221D) is sometimes mistaken for alpha.
The uppercase letter alpha is not generally used as a symbol because it tends to be rendered identically to the uppercase Latin A.
International Phonetic Alphabet In the International Phonetic Alphabet, the letter ɑ, which looks similar to the lower-case alpha, represents the open back unrounded vowel.
He is regarded as one of the world's outstanding futurists.
Toffler was an associate editor of Fortune magazine.
In his early works he focused on technology and its impact, which he termed "information overload." In 1970, his first major book about the future, Future Shock, became a worldwide best-seller and has sold over 6 million copies.
He and his wife Heidi Toffler, who collaborated with him for most of his writings, moved on to examining the reaction to changes in society with another best-selling book, The Third Wave, in 1980.
In it, he foresaw such technological advances as cloning, personal computers, the Internet, cable television and mobile communication.
He founded Toffler Associates, a management consulting company, and was a visiting scholar at the Russell Sage Foundation, visiting professor at Cornell University, faculty member of the New School for Social Research, a White House correspondent, and a business consultant.
He was the son of Rose (Albaum) and Sam Toffler, a furrier, both Polish Jews who had migrated to America.
He was inspired to become a writer at the age of 7 by his aunt and uncle, who lived with the Tofflers.
"They were Depression-era literary intellectuals," Toffler said, "and they always talked about exciting ideas." Toffler graduated from New York University in 1950 as an English major, though by his own account he was more focused on political activism than grades.
He met his future wife, Adelaide Elizabeth Farrell (nicknamed "Heidi"), when she was starting a graduate course in linguistics.
Being radical students, they decided against further graduate work and moved to Cleveland, Ohio, where they married on April 29, 1950.
He compared his own desire for experience to other writers, such as Jack London, who in his quest for subjects to write about sailed the seas, and John Steinbeck, who went to pick grapes with migrant workers.
Alvin became a millwright and welder.
The Amazing Spider-Man is an ongoing American superhero comic book series featuring the Marvel Comics superhero Spider-Man as its title character and main protagonist.
Being in the mainstream continuity of the franchise, it was the character's first title, launching seven months after his introduction in the final issue of Amazing Fantasy.
The series began publication with a March 1963 cover date and has been published nearly continuously to date over six volumes with only one significant interruption.
Issues of the title currently feature an issue number within its sixth volume, as well as a "legacy" number reflecting the issue's overall number across all Amazing Spider-Man volumes.
The title reached 900 issues in 2022.
The series began as a bimonthly periodical before being increased to monthly after four issues.
It was the character's sole monthly headlining title until Peter Parker, the Spectacular Spider-Man launched in 1976.
After 441 issues, The Amazing Spider-Man was restarted in 1999 as issue No.
It ran for 58 issues before reverting to the title's overall issue number with #500 in 2003.
The series ran essentially continuously over the first two volumes from 1963 until its landmark 700th issue at the end of 2012 when it was replaced by The Superior Spider-Man as part of the Marvel NOW!
relaunch of Marvel's comic lines.
The title was occasionally published biweekly during the first two volumes, and was published three times a month from 2008 to 2010.
After the relaunch of Action Comics and Detective Comics in 2011, The Amazing Spider-Man briefly became the highest-numbered active American comic book.
The Amazing Spider-Man returned with volume 3 in April 2014 following the conclusion of The Superior Spider-Man story arc after 18 issues.
After 32 issues, the volume was once again relaunched as part of Marvel Legacy, returning to the overall "legacy" numbering with issue No.
Less than a year later, the series was relaunched again with a fifth volume as part of Marvel's Fresh Start.
For the first time, although the issue numbers were again restarted from #1, the issues also bore the overall "legacy" issue number.
A sixth volume commenced in April 2022 to celebrate Spider-Man's 60th anniversary.
Since the third volume, the title has had various release schedules, including monthly and bi-weekly, among others.
Publication history Writer-editor Stan Lee and artist and co-plotter Steve Ditko created the character of Spider-Man, and the pair produced 38 issues from March 1963 to July 1966.
Ditko left after the 38th issue, while Lee remained as writer until issue 100.
Since then, many writers and artists have taken over the monthly comic through the years, chronicling the adventures of Marvel's most identifiable hero.
The Amazing Spider-Man has been the character's flagship series for his first fifty years in publ
AM or Am may refer to: Arts and entertainment Music A minor, a minor scale in music A.M.
(Wilco album) AM (Abraham Mateo album) AM (Arctic Monkeys album) AM (musician), American musician Am, the A minor chord symbol Armeemarschsammlung (Army March Collection), catalog of German military march music Andrew Moore (musician), Canadian musician known as A.M.
The permanent population is approximately 97,120 ( estimates), with 97% residing in Antigua.
Codrington is Barbuda's largest town.
In 1493, Christopher Columbus surveyed the island of Antigua, which he named for the Church of Santa María La Antigua.
Great Britain colonized Antigua in 1632 and Barbuda in 1678.
With the breakup of the federation in 1962, it became one of the West Indies Associated States in 1967.
Antigua and Barbuda is a member of the Commonwealth and a Commonwealth realm; it is a constitutional monarchy with Charles III as its head of state.
The economy of Antigua and Barbuda is largely dependent on tourism, which accounts for 80% of its GDP.
Like other island nations, Antigua and Barbuda is vulnerable to the effects of climate change, such as sea level rise, and increased intensity of extreme weather like hurricanes.
Antigua and Barbuda offers a citizenship by investment program.
Etymology is Spanish for 'ancient' and is Spanish for 'bearded'.
The island of Antigua was originally called by the Arawaks and is locally known by that name today; the Caribs possibly called Barbuda .
Christopher Columbus, while sailing by in 1493, may have named it , after an icon in the Spanish Seville Cathedral.
History Pre-colonial period Antigua was first settled by archaic age hunter-gatherer Native Americans called the Ciboney.
Carbon dating has established the earliest settlements started around 3100 BC.
They introduced agriculture, raising, among other crops, the famous Antigua Black Pineapple (Ananas comosus), corn, sweet potatoes, chiles, guava, tobacco, and cotton.
Later on the more bellicose Caribs also settled the island, possibly by force.
European arrival and settlement Christopher Columbus was the first European to sight the islands in 1493.
The Spanish did not colonise Antigua until after a combination of European and African diseases, malnutrition
Azincourt (), historically known in English as Agincourt ( ), is a commune in the Pas-de-Calais department in northern France.
It is situated north-west of Saint-Pol-sur-Ternoise on the D71 road between Hesdin and Fruges.
Toponym The name is attested as Aisincurt in 1175, derived from a Germanic masculine name Aizo, Aizino and the early Northern French word curt (which meant a farm with a courtyard; derived from the Late Latin cortem).
The name has no etymological link with Agincourt, Meurthe-et-Moselle (attested as Egincourt 875), which is derived separately from another Germanic male name *Ingin-.
In 1513, Henry VIII crossed the English Channel, stopping by at Azincourt.
This has now been replaced by the Centre historique médiéval d'Azincourt (CHM)a more professional museum, conference centre and exhibition space incorporating laser, video, slide shows, audio commentaries, and some interactive elements.
A close ally of Adolf Hitler, he was convicted at the Nuremberg trial and sentenced to 20 years in prison.
An architect by training, Speer joined the Nazi Party in 1931.
His architectural skills made him increasingly prominent within the Party, and he became a member of Hitler's inner circle.
Hitler commissioned him to design and construct structures including the Reich Chancellery and the Nazi party rally grounds in Nuremberg.
In 1937, Hitler appointed Speer as General Building Inspector for Berlin.
In 1944, Speer established a task force to increase production of fighter aircraft.
Having served his full term, Speer was released in 1966.
He used his writings from the time of imprisonment as the basis for two autobiographical books, Inside the Third Reich and Spandau: The Secret Diaries.
Speer's books were a success; the public was fascinated by an inside view of the Third Reich.
Speer died of a stroke in 1981.
Little remains of his personal architectural work.
Through his autobiographies and interviews, Speer carefully constructed an image of himself as a man who deeply regretted having failed to discover the monstrous crimes of the Third Reich.
He continued to deny explicit knowledge of, and responsibility for, the Holocaust.
The myth began to fall apart in the 1980s, when the armaments miracle was attributed to Nazi propaganda.
Adam Tooze wrote in The Wages of Destruction that the idea that Speer was an apolitical technocrat was "absurd".
Martin Kitchen, writing in Speer: Hitler's Architect, stated that much of the increase in Germany's arms production was actually due to systems instituted by Speer's predecessor (Fritz Todt) and furthermore that Speer was intimately involved in the "Final Solution".
Early years and personal life Speer was born in Mannheim, into an upper-middle-class famil
The family Asteraceae (), with the original name Compositae, consists of over 32,000 known species of flowering plants in over 1,900 genera within the order Asterales.
Commonly referred to as the aster, daisy, composite, or sunflower family, Compositae were first described in the year 1740.
The number of species in Asteraceae is rivaled only by the Orchidaceae, and which is the larger family is unclear as the quantity of extant species in each family is unknown.
Most species of Asteraceae are annual, biennial, or perennial herbaceous plants, but there are also shrubs, vines, and trees.
The family has a widespread distribution, from subpolar to tropical regions, in a wide variety of habitats.
Most occur in hot desert and cold or hot semi-desert climates, and they are found on every continent but Antarctica.
Their primary common characteristic is flower heads, technically known as capitula, consisting of sometimes hundreds of tiny individual florets enclosed by a whorl of protective involucral bracts.
The oldest known fossils are pollen grains from the Late Cretaceous (Campanian to Maastrichtian) of Antarctica, dated to million years ago (mya).
It is estimated that the crown group of Asteraceae evolved at least 85.9 mya (Late Cretaceous, Santonian) with a stem node age of 88–89 mya (Late Cretaceous, Coniacian).
Asteraceae is an economically important family, providing food staples, garden plants, and herbal medicines.
Species outside of their native ranges can be considered weedy or invasive.
Description Members of the Asteraceae are mostly herbaceous plants, but some shrubs, vines, and trees (such as Lachanodes arborea) do exist.
Asteraceae species are generally easy to distinguish from other plants because of their unique inflorescence and other shared characteristics, such as the joined anthers of the stamens.
Nonetheless, determining genera and species of some groups such as Hieracium is notoriously difficult (see "damned yellow composite" for example).
Roots Members of the family Asteraceae generally produce taproots, but sometimes they possess fibrous root systems.
Some species have underground stems in the form of caudices or rhizomes.
These can be fleshy or woody depending on the species.
Stems Stems are herbaceous, aerial, branched, and cylindrical with glandular hairs, generally erect, but can be prostrate to ascending.
The stems can contain secretory canals with resin, or latex, which is particularly common among the Cichorioideae.
Leaves Leaves can be alternate, opposite, or whorled.
They may be simple, but are often deeply lobed or otherwise incised, often conduplicate or revolute.
The margins also can be entire or toothed.
Resin or latex also can be present in the leaves.
Inflorescences Nearly all Asteraceae bear their flowers in dense flower heads called capitula.
They are surrounded by involucral bracts, and when viewed from a distance, each capitulum may appear to be a single flower.
Enlarged outer (peripheral) flowers i
Apiaceae () or Umbelliferae is a family of mostly aromatic flowering plants named after the type genus Apium and commonly known as the celery, carrot or parsley family, or simply as umbellifers.
It is the 16th-largest family of flowering plants, with more than 3,800 species in about 446 genera, including such well-known and economically important plants as ajwain, angelica, anise, asafoetida, caraway, carrot, celery, chervil, coriander, cumin, dill, fennel, lovage, cow parsley, parsley, parsnip and sea holly, as well as silphium, a plant whose identity is unclear and which may be extinct.
The family Apiaceae includes a significant number of phototoxic species, such as giant hogweed, and a smaller number of highly poisonous species, such as poison hemlock, water hemlock, spotted cowbane, fool's parsley, and various species of water dropwort.
Their leaves are of variable size and alternately arranged, or with the upper leaves becoming nearly opposite.
The leaves may be petiolate or sessile.
There are no stipules but the petioles are frequently sheathing and the leaves may be perfoliate.
The leaf blade is usually dissected, ternate, or pinnatifid, but simple and entire in some genera, e.g.
Commonly, their leaves emit a marked smell when crushed, aromatic to fetid, but absent in some species.
The defining characteristic of this family is the inflorescence, the flowers nearly always aggregated in terminal umbels, that may be simple or more commonly compound, often umbelliform cymes.
Some are andromonoecious, polygamomonoecious, or even dioecious (as in Acronema), with a distinct calyx and corolla, but the calyx is often highly reduced, to the point of being undetectable in many species, while the corolla can be white, yellow, pink or purple.
The flowers are nearly perfectly pentamerous, with five petals and five stamens.
There is often variation in the functionality of the stamens even within a single inflorescence.
Some flowers are functionally staminate (where a pistil may be present but has no ovules capable of being fertilized) while others are functionally pistillate (where stamens are present but their anthers do not produce viable pollen).
Pollination of one flower by the pollen of a different flower of the same plant (geitonogamy) is common.
The gynoecium consists of two carpels fused into a single, bicarpellate pistil with an inferior ovary.
Stylopodia support two styles and secrete nectar, attracting pollinators like flies, mosquitoes, gnats, beetle
An axon (from Greek ἄξων áxōn, axis), or nerve fiber (or nerve fibre: see spelling differences), is a long, slender projection of a nerve cell, or neuron, in vertebrates, that typically conducts electrical impulses known as action potentials away from the nerve cell body.
The function of the axon is to transmit information to different neurons, muscles, and glands.
Axon dysfunction can be the cause of many inherited and acquired neurological disorders that affect both the peripheral and central neurons.
Nerve fibers are classed into three typesgroup A nerve fibers, group B nerve fibers, and group C nerve fibers.
Groups A and B are myelinated, and group C are unmyelinated.
These groups include both sensory fibers and motor fibers.
Another classification groups only the sensory fibers as Type I, Type II, Type III, and Type IV.
An axon is one of two types of cytoplasmic protrusions from the cell body of a neuron; the other type is a dendrite.
Axons are distinguished from dendrites by several features, including shape (dendrites often taper while axons usually maintain a constant radius), length (dendrites are restricted to a small region around the cell body while axons can be much longer), and function (dendrites receive signals whereas axons transmit them).
Some types of neurons have no axon and transmit signals from their dendrites.
In some species, axons can emanate from dendrites known as axon-carrying dendrites.
No neuron ever has more than one axon; however in invertebrates such as insects or leeches the axon sometimes consists of several regions that function more or less independently of each other.
Axons are covered by a membrane known as an axolemma; the cytoplasm of an axon is called axoplasm.
Most axons branch, in some cases very profusely.
The end branches of an axon are called telodendria.
The swollen end of a telodendron is known as the axon terminal which joins the dendrite or cell body of another neuron forming a synaptic connection.
Axons make contact with other cellsusually other neurons but sometimes muscle or gland cellsat junctions called synapses.
In some circumstances, the axon of one neuron may form a synapse with the dendrites of the same neuron, resulting in an autapse.
At a synapse, the membrane of the axon closely adjoins the membrane of the target cell, and special molecular structures serve to transmit electrical or electrochemical signals across the gap.
Some synaptic junctions appear along the length of an axon as it extends; these are called en passant ("in passing") synapses and can be in the hundreds or even the thousands along one axon.
Other synapses appear as terminals at the ends of axonal branches.
The ancient Aramaic alphabet was used to write the Aramaic languages spoken by ancient Aramean pre-Christian tribes throughout the Fertile Crescent.
(The modern Hebrew alphabet derives from the Aramaic alphabet, in contrast to the modern Samaritan alphabet, which derives from Paleo-Hebrew).
The letters in the Aramaic alphabet all represent consonants, some of which are also used as matres lectionis to indicate long vowels.
Writing systems (like the Aramaic) that indicate consonants but do not indicate most vowels other than by means of matres lectionis or added diacritical signs, have been called abjads by Peter T.
Daniels to distinguish them from alphabets such as the Greek alphabet that represent vowels more systematically.
The term was coined to avoid the notion that a writing system that represents sounds must be either a syllabary or an alphabet, which would imply that a system like Aramaic must be either a syllabary (as argued by Ignace Gelb) or an incomplete or deficient alphabet (as most other writers had said before Daniels).
The Aramaic alphabet is historically significant since virtually all modern Middle Eastern writing systems can be traced back to it.
That is primarily due to the widespread usage of the Aramaic language after it was adopted as both a lingua franca and the official language of the Neo-Assyrian and Neo-Babylonian Empires, and their successor, the Achaemenid Empire.
By contrast the Samaritan Hebrew script is directly descended from Proto-Hebrew/Phoenician script, which was in turn the ancestor of the Aramaic alphabet.
The Aramaic alphabet was also an ancestor to the Nabataean alphabet, which in turn had the Arabic alphabet as a descendant.
History The earliest inscriptions in the Aramaic language use the Phoenician alphabet.
It was used to write the Aramaic languages spoken by ancient Aramean pre-Christian tribes throughout the Fertile Crescent.
It was also adopted by other peoples as their own alphabet when empires and their subjects
"American shot" or "cowboy shot" is a translation of a phrase from French film criticism, , and refers to a medium-long ("knee") film shot of a group of characters, who are arranged so that all are visible to the camera.
The purpose of the composition is to allow complex dialogue scenes to be played out without changes in camera position.
In some literature, this is simply referred to as a 3/4 shot.
One of the other main reasons why French critics called it "American shot" was its frequent use in the western genre.
This was because a shot that started at knee level would reveal the weapon of a cowboy, usually holstered at their waist.
It is actually the closest the camera can get to an actor while keeping both their face and their holstered gun in frame.
It became his trademark style.
Acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), or acute demyelinating encephalomyelitis, is a rare autoimmune disease marked by a sudden, widespread attack of inflammation in the brain and spinal cord.
As well as causing the brain and spinal cord to become inflamed, ADEM also attacks the nerves of the central nervous system and damages their myelin insulation, which, as a result, destroys the white matter.
The cause is often a trigger such as from viral infection or vaccinations.
ADEM's symptoms resemble the symptoms of multiple sclerosis (MS), so the disease itself is sorted into the classification of the multiple sclerosis borderline diseases.
However, ADEM has several features that distinguish it from MS.
Unlike MS, ADEM occurs usually in children and is marked with rapid fever, although adolescents and adults can get the disease too.
ADEM consists of a single flare-up whereas MS is marked with several flare-ups (or relapses), over a long period of time.
Relapses following ADEM are reported in up to a quarter of patients, but the majority of these 'multiphasic' presentations following ADEM likely represent MS.
ADEM is also distinguished by a loss of consciousness, coma and death, which is very rare in MS, except in severe cases.
It affects about 8 per 1,000,000 people per year.
Although it occurs in all ages, most reported cases are in children and adolescents, with the average age around 5 to 8 years old.
The disease affects males and females almost equally.
ADEM shows seasonal variation with higher incidence in winter and spring months which may coincide with higher viral infections during these months.
The mortality rate may be as high as 5%; however, full recovery is seen in 50 to 75% of cases with increase in survival rates up to 70 to 90% with figures including minor residual disability as well.
The average time to recover from ADEM flare-ups is one to six months.
ADEM produces multiple inflammatory lesions in the brain and spinal cord, particularly in the white matter.
Usually these are found in the subcortical and central white matter and cortical gray-white junction of both cerebral hemispheres, cerebellum, brainstem, and spinal cord, but periventricular white matter and gray matter of the cortex, thalami and basal ganglia may also be involved.
When a person has more than one demyelinating episode of ADEM, the disease is then called recurrent disseminated encephalomyelitis or multiphasic disseminated encephalomyelitis (MDEM).
Also, a fulminant course in adults has been described.
Signs and symptoms ADEM has an abrupt onset and a monophasic course.
Symptoms usually begin 1–3 weeks after infection.
Major symptoms include fever, headache, nausea and vomiting, confusion, vision impairment, drowsiness, seizures and coma.
Although initially the symptoms are usually mild, they worsen rapidly over the course of hours to days, with the average time to maximum severity being about four and a half days.
Additional symptoms include hemiparesis
Ataxia (from Greek α- [a negative prefix] + -τάξις [order] = "lack of order") is a neurological sign consisting of lack of voluntary coordination of muscle movements that can include gait abnormality, speech changes, and abnormalities in eye movements, that indicates dysfunction of parts of the nervous system that coordinate movement, such as the cerebellum.
These nervous system dysfunctions occur in several different patterns, with different results and different possible causes.
Ataxia can be limited to one side of the body, which is referred to as hemiataxia.
Friedreich's ataxia has gait abnormality as the most commonly presented symptom.
Dystaxia is a mild degree of ataxia.
Types Cerebellar The term cerebellar ataxia is used to indicate ataxia due to dysfunction of the cerebellum.
The cerebellum is responsible for integrating a significant amount of neural information that is used to coordinate smoothly ongoing movements and to participate in motor planning.
Although ataxia is not present with all cerebellar lesions, many conditions affecting the cerebellum do produce ataxia.
This results in a characteristic type of irregular, uncoordinated movement that can manifest itself in many possible ways, such as asthenia, asynergy, delayed reaction time, and dyschronometria.
Individuals with cerebellar ataxia could also display instability of gait, difficulty with eye movements, dysarthria, dysphagia, hypotonia, dysmetria, and dysdiadochokinesia.
These deficits can vary depending on which cerebellar structures have been damaged, and whether the lesion is bi- or unilateral.
People with cerebellar ataxia may initially present with poor balance, which could be demonstrated as an inability to stand on one leg or perform tandem gait.
Turning is also problematic and could result in falls.
As cerebellar ataxia becomes severe, great assistance and effort are needed to stand and walk.
Dysarthria, an impairment with articulation, may also be present and is characterized by "scanning" speech that consists of slower rate, irregular rhythm, and variable volume.
Also, slurring of speech, tremor of the voice, and ataxic respiration may occur.
Cerebellar ataxia could result with incoordination of movement, particularly in the extremities.
Overshooting (or hypermetria) occurs with finger-to-nose testing and heel to shin testing; thus, dysmetria is evident.
Impairments with alternating movements (dysdiadochokinesia), as well as dysrhythmia, may also be displayed.
Tremor of the head and trunk (titubation) may be seen in individuals with cerebellar ataxia.
Interaction torques are create
She was the first to recognise that the machine had applications beyond pure calculation.
Ada Byron was the only legitimate child of poet Lord Byron and reformer Lady Byron.
All Lovelace's half-siblings, Lord Byron's other children, were born out of wedlock to other women.
Byron separated from his wife a month after Ada was born and left England forever.
He died in Greece when Ada was eight.
Despite this, Ada remained interested in him, naming her two sons Byron and Gordon.
Upon her death, she was buried next to him at her request.
Although often ill in her childhood, Ada pursued her studies assiduously.
Her educational and social exploits brought her into contact with scientists such as Andrew Crosse, Charles Babbage, Sir David Brewster, Charles Wheatstone, Michael Faraday, and the author Charles Dickens, contacts which she used to further her education.
Ada described her approach as "poetical science" and herself as an "Analyst (& Metaphysician)".
She was in particular interested in Babbage's work on the Analytical Engine.
Lovelace first met him in June 1833, through their mutual friend, and her private tutor, Mary Somerville.
Between 1842 and 1843, Ada translated an article by the military engineer Luigi Menabrea (later Prime Minister of Italy) about the Analytical Engine, supplementing it with an elaborate set of seven notes, simply called "Notes".
Lovelace's notes are important in the early history of computers, especially since the seventh one contained what many consider to be the first computer program—that is, an algorithm designed to be carried out by a machine.
Other historians reject this perspective and point out that Babbage's personal notes from the years 1836/1837 contain the first programs for the engine.
She also developed a vision of the capability of computers to go beyond mere calculating or number-crunching, while many others, including Babbage himself, focused only on those capabilities.
Her mindset of "poetical science" led her to ask questions about the Analytical Engine (as shown in her notes) examining how individuals and society relate to technology as a collaborative tool.
Biography Childhood Lord Byron expected his child to be a "glorious boy" and was disappointed when Lady Byron gave birth to a girl.
August William Derleth (February 24, 1909 – July 4, 1971) was an American writer and anthologist.
He was the first book publisher of the writings of H.
He made contributions to the Cthulhu Mythos and the cosmic horror genre and helped found the publisher Arkham House (which did much to bring supernatural fiction into print in hardcover in the US that had only been readily available in the UK).
Derleth was also a leading American regional writer of his day, as well as prolific in several other genres, including historical fiction, poetry, detective fiction, science fiction, and biography.
Notably, he created the fictional detective Solar Pons, a pastiche of Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes.
A 1938 Guggenheim Fellow, Derleth considered his most serious work to be the ambitious Sac Prairie Saga, a series of fiction, historical fiction, poetry, and non-fiction naturalist works designed to memorialize life in the Wisconsin he knew.
Derleth can also be considered a pioneering naturalist and conservationist in his writing.
He was educated in local parochial and public high school.
Derleth wrote his first fiction at age 13.
He was interested most in reading, and he made three trips to the library a week.
He would save his money to buy books (his personal library exceeded 12,000 volumes later on in life).
Some of his biggest influences were Ralph Waldo Emerson's essays, Walt Whitman, H.
Mencken's The American Mercury, Samuel Johnson's The History of Rasselas, Prince of Abissinia, Alexandre Dumas, Edgar Allan Poe, Walter Scott, and Henry David Thoreau's Walden.
Forty rejected stories and three years later, according to anthologist Jim Stephens, he sold his first story, "Bat's Belfry", to Weird Tales magazine in 1926.
Derleth wrote throughout his four years at the University of Wisconsin, where he received a B.A.
During this time he also served briefly as associate editor of Minneapolis-based Fawcett Publications Mystic Magazine.
They rented a cabin, writing Gothic and other horror stories and selling them to Weird Tales magazine.
Derleth won a place on the O'Brien Roll of Honor for Five Alone, published in Place of Hawks, but was first published in Pagany magazine.
In the mid-1930s, Derleth organized a Ranger's Club for young people, served as clerk and president of the local school board, served as a parole officer, organized a local men's club and a parent-t
The Alps () are the highest and most extensive mountain range that is entirely in Europe, stretching approximately across eight Alpine countries (from west to east): Monaco, France, Switzerland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Germany, Austria and Slovenia.
The Alpine arch extends from Nice on the western Mediterranean to Trieste on the Adriatic and Vienna at the beginning of the Pannonian Basin.
The mountains were formed over tens of millions of years as the African and Eurasian tectonic plates collided.
Extreme shortening caused by the event resulted in marine sedimentary rocks rising by thrusting and folding into high mountain peaks such as Mont Blanc and the Matterhorn.
Mont Blanc spans the French–Italian border, and at is the highest mountain in the Alps.
The Alpine region area contains 128 peaks higher than .
The altitude and size of the range affect the climate in Europe; in the mountains, precipitation levels vary greatly and climatic conditions consist of distinct zones.
Wildlife such as ibex live in the higher peaks to elevations of , and plants such as edelweiss grow in rocky areas in lower elevations as well as in higher elevations.
Evidence of human habitation in the Alps goes back to the Palaeolithic era.
A mummified man ("Ötzi"), determined to be 5,000 years old, was discovered on a glacier at the Austrian–Italian border in 1991.
Hannibal notably crossed the Alps with a herd of elephants, and the Romans had settlements in the region.
In 1800, Napoleon crossed one of the mountain passes with an army of 40,000.
The 18th and 19th centuries saw an influx of naturalists, writers, and artists, in particular, the Romantics, followed by the golden age of alpinism as mountaineers began to ascend the peaks of the Alps.
The Alpine region has a strong cultural identity.
The Winter Olympic Games have been hosted in the Swiss, French, Italian, Austrian and German Alps.
the region is home to 14 million people and has 120 million annual visitors.
Etymology and toponymy The English word Alps comes from the Latin Alpes.
The Latin word Alpes could possibly come from the adjective albus ("white"), or could possibly come from the Greek goddess Alphito, whose name is related to alphita, the "white flour"; alphos, a dull white leprosy; and finally the Proto-Indo-European word *albʰós.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, the Latin Alpes might derive fr
Albert Camus ( , ; ; 7 November 1913 – 4 January 1960) was an Algerian-French philosopher, author, dramatist, journalist, and political activist.
He was the recipient of the 1957 Nobel Prize in Literature at the age of 44, the second-youngest recipient in history.
His works include The Stranger, The Plague, The Myth of Sisyphus, The Fall, and The Rebel.
Camus was born in French Algeria to Pieds Noirs parents.
Camus tried to flee but finally joined the French Resistance where he served as editor-in-chief at Combat, an outlawed newspaper.
He married twice but had many extramarital affairs.
Camus was politically active; he was part of the left that opposed Joseph Stalin and the Soviet Union because of their totalitarianism.
Some consider Camus's work to show him to be an existentialist, even though he himself firmly rejected the term throughout his lifetime.
His mother, Catherine Hélène Camus (née Sintès), was French with Balearic Spanish ancestry.
Camus, his mother and other relatives lived without many basic material possessions during his childhood in the Belcourt section of Algiers.
Camus was a second-generation French inhabitant of Algeria, a French territory from 1830 until 1962.
Hence, he was called —a slang term for people of French and other European descent born in Algeria.
His identity and poor background had a substantial effect on his later life.
Nevertheless, Camus was a French citizen and enjoyed more rights than Arab and Berber Algerians under indigénat.
During his childhood, he developed a love for football and swimming.
Under the influence of his teacher Louis Germain, Camus gained a scholarship in 1924 to continue his studies at a prestigious lyceum (secondary school) near Algiers.
In 1930, at the age of 17, he was diagnosed with tuberculosis.
Because it is a transmitted disease, he moved out of his home and stayed with his uncle G
Dame Agatha Mary Clarissa Christie, Lady Mallowan, (; 15 September 1890 – 12 January 1976) was an English writer known for her 66 detective novels and 14 short story collections, particularly those revolving around fictional detectives Hercule Poirot and Miss Marple.
She also wrote the world's longest-running play, the murder mystery The Mousetrap, which has been performed in the West End since 1952.
A writer during the "Golden Age of Detective Fiction", Christie has been called the "Queen of Crime".
She also wrote six novels under the pseudonym Mary Westmacott.
In 1971, she was made a Dame (DBE) by Queen Elizabeth II for her contributions to literature.
Guinness World Records lists Christie as the best-selling fiction writer of all time, her novels having sold more than two billion copies.
Christie was born into a wealthy upper-middle-class family in Torquay, Devon, and was largely home-schooled.
She was initially an unsuccessful writer with six consecutive rejections, but this changed in 1920 when The Mysterious Affair at Styles, featuring detective Hercule Poirot, was published.
Her first husband was Archibald Christie; they married in 1914 and had one child before divorcing in 1928.
Following the breakdown of her marriage and the death of her mother in 1926 she made international headlines by going missing for eleven days.
Following her marriage to archaeologist Max Mallowan in 1930, she spent several months each year on digs in the Middle East and used her first-hand knowledge of this profession in her fiction.
According to UNESCO's Index Translationum, she remains the most-translated individual author.
Her novel And Then There Were None is one of the top-selling books of all time, with approximately 100 million copies sold.
Christie's stage play The Mousetrap holds the world record for the longest initial run.
It opened at the Ambassadors Theatre in the West End on 25 November 1952, and by 2018 there had been more than 27,500 performances.
The play was temporarily closed in 2020 because of COVID-19 lockdowns in London before it reopened in 2021.
In 2013, she was voted the best crime writer and The Murder of Roger Ackroyd the best crime novel ever by 600 professional novelists of the Crime Writers' Association.
In 2015, And Then There Were None was named the "World's Favourite Christie" in a vote sponsored by the author's estate.
Many of Christie's books and short stories have been adapted for television, radio, video games, and graphic novels.
More than 30 feature films are based on her work.
Life and career Childhood and adolescence: 1890–1907 Agatha Mary Clarissa Miller was born on 15
